 
 
 
- 1 - 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
NO LIMIT HOLDEM SECRETS 
 
BY ROY ROUNDER 
 
Copyright © by Roy Rounder Communications, Inc.  All Rights Reserved. 
 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or 
transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, 
recording, or otherwise, without prior written permission of the publisher. 
 
Published by Roy Rounder Communications, Inc. 
 
Visit www.NoLimitHoldemSecrets.com and www.RoyRounder.com for more 
information. 
 
For publishing information, business inquiries, or additional comments or questions, 
contact support@nolimitholdemsecrets.com.  
 
Manufactured in the United States of America. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
 
READ THIS FIRST 
 
Hi, my name is Roy Rounder.  
 
Of course, that’s not my REAL name. “Rounder” is actually a nickname that all my 
friends used to call me… gradually, it became a part of my “poker persona” and pen 
name. 
 
I’ve been playing Texas Holdem for as long as I can remember… BEFORE the game 
exploded with popularity. No limit Texas Holdem is my game of choice-- as it’s been 
from day one-- and that’s what this book is about. 
 
Let’s get a few things out of the way before you tackle this book… 
 
First, be a responsible gambler. Don’t get “addicted” to poker and don’t play in stakes 
that are too high for you. While it’s true you can make a full-time income playing Texas 
Holdem, don’t go betting your house payments at the tables.  
 
Gamblers Anonymous has given me permission to reproduce a simple questionnaire 
that will help you determine if you might have a gambling addiction. It can be found in 
the chapter titled, “Are You A Responsible Gambler?”. 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
If you think you may have a gambling problem… or if you know someone who does… 
please, contact Gamblers Anonymous right away. Seriously. 
 
Second, let me say this: I’m not a writer. Well, not a PROFESSIONAL writer anyway. 
I’m a poker player. I write like I talk. I may have a college education, but I don’t pay 
attention to all the grammar rules or “common practices” when it comes to writing this 
book. 
 
My goal here is to help you become the best damn poker player you can be. Period. If 
you’re looking for something else, then this book isn’t for you. 
 
Third, I’m not sexist. In this book I use a lot of practical examples and use the word “his” 
all the time… instead of “his or her”. Don’t take this the wrong way. I think women are 
great… I love women… and I love playing poker with women. So if you see masculine 
names and pronouns scattered in these pages, just get over it. I do it to keep things 
consistent and to the point. 
 
Fourth, when you read this book, I recommend doing it from front to back. I don’t 
recommend skipping any parts. A lot of the chapters build on lessons from earlier in the 
book.  
 
After you read the whole thing, use this book as a reference guide. Skim through the 
pages before your next big poker tournament. Re-read the chapters you have trouble 
with. And so on.  
 
The reason this guide is so powerful is because it’s PRO-LEVEL TACTICS simplified in 
an easy-to-understand language that anyone can use. A lot of the poker information out 
there is either too complicated and obscure… or so simple that you’d think it was written 
for a 3rd grader. 
 
You’ll be able to use these strategies no matter what your stakes or level. As you’ll see, I 
still play in many low-stakes games because that’s what my friends play in. I never turn 
a poker game down and I don’t only play for money. I play poker because I love poker. 
Period. 
 
Fifth, I’m an aggressive poker player. This may not be your style, but that’s OK. 
Everyone has a different method and approach that works for them… and so please 
don’t feel you must “copy” my style in order to get the most from these strategies.  
 
Read this book with an open mind and integrate my techniques into the type of play that 
fits you best. Don’t be afraid to try new things, of course, and make sure your game is 
constantly evolving. 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
 
Sixth, if you’re a limit poker player, you’ll still get a lot from this guide. The mechanics 
are the same. Limit poker involves less bluffing and “all-in” psychology… but more 
mathematics. But anyway, if you read this book and apply the relevant concepts to limit 
poker, you’ll definitely see success… so feel free to give it a shot. 
 
With that being said, I’ll reiterate that my primary goal here is to teach you— the no 
limit Texas Holdem poker player— how to become the best damn poker player you can 
be. Whether you want to wipe out your local cash games, clean up the tables online, win 
a tournament on national TV, or make this amazing game your full-time job, this book is 
for you. 
 
OK, let’s begin. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
READ THIS FIRST  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
PART 1: THE BASICS   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
CHAPTER: 1 HOW TO PLAY TEXAS HOLDEM   
 
 
 
10 
CHAPTER: 2 POKER DEFINITIONS AND SLANG  
 
 
 
14 
CHAPTER: 3 HAND RANKINGS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
CHAPTER: 4 POKER ETIQUETTE   
 
 
 
 
 
28  
CHAPTER: 5 ARE YOU A RESPONSIBLE GAMBLER?  
 
 
32 
CHAPTER: 6 HOW TO HOST YOUR OWN HOME TOURNAMENT  
34 
 
PART 2: POSITIONING  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 
 
CHAPTER: 7 UNDER THE GUN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 
CHAPTER: 8 FIRST POSITION AFTER THE FLOP  
 
 
 
48 
CHAPTER: 9 LATE POSITIONING   
 
 
 
 
 
51 
CHAPTER: 10 ON THE BUTTON  
 
 
 
 
 
 
55 
CHAPTER: 11 WATCH THE GUN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 
 
PART 3: BETTING STRATEGIES  
 
 
 
 
 
 
62  
 
CHAPTER 12: MIX IT UP  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
63 
CHAPTER 13: FEELER BETS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
65 
CHAPTER 14: CHANGING GEARS   
 
 
 
 
 
70 
CHAPTER 15: STEALING THE BLINDS   
 
 
 
 
74 
CHAPTER 16: PLAY AGGRESSIVELY  
 
 
 
 
 
77 
CHAPTER 17: REPRESENT THE FLOP  
 
 
 
 
 
81 
CHAPTER 18: POT-COMMITTED   
 
 
 
 
 
85 
CHAPTER 19: SLOW PLAYING  
 
 
 
 
 
 
88 
CHAPTER 20: WHEN SLOW PLAYING BACKFIRES   
 
 
94 
CHAPTER 21: CHECK RAISE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
98 
CHAPTER 22: HEADS-UP PLAY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
PART 4: STARTING HANDS   
 
 
 
 
 
 
104 
 
CHAPTER 23: HOW TO PLAY BIG SLICK  
 
 
 
 
105 
CHAPTER 24: HOW TO PLAY ACE NINE AND UNDER  
 
 
108 
CHAPTER 25: HOW TO PLAY POCKET JACKS   
 
 
 
111 
CHAPTER 26: HOW TO PLAY LOW WIRED PAIRS   
 
 
114 
CHAPTER 27: HOW TO PLAY POCKET KINGS   
 
 
 
119 
CHAPTER 28: HOW TO PLAY POCKET ACES   
 
 
 
121 
CHAPTER 29: HOW TO PLAY SUITED-CONNECTORS  
 
 
125 
CHAPTER 30: HOW TO PLAY SEMI-CONNECTORS   
 
 
128 
CHAPTER 31: HOW TO PLAY HIDDEN HANDS  
 
 
 
133 
 
PART 5: PSYCHOLOGY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
135 
 
CHAPTER 32: THE SHORT STACK  
 
 
 
 
 
136 
CHAPTER 33: MANIC   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
139 
CHAPTER 34: KEEPING YOUR OPPONENTS OFF BALANCE  
 
141 
CHAPTER 35: BAD BEATS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
143 
CHAPTER 36: CONFIDENCE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
146 
CHAPTER 37: TILT  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
148 
CHAPTER 38: ADJUST TO YOUR TABLE  
 
 
 
 
151 
CHAPTER 39: TABLE IMAGE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
154 
CHAPTER 40: ANTICIPATION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
157 
CHAPTER 41: PLAYING THE WALLET   
 
 
 
 
159 
CHAPTER 42: PLAYING LONG HOURS   
 
 
 
 
162 
 
PART 6: SPECIAL TECHNIQUES   
 
 
 
 
 
164 
 
CHAPTER 43: STOP OPPONENTS FROM CHASING   
 
 
165 
CHAPTER 44: HOW TO SPOT THE SUCKER  
 
 
 
 
167 
CHAPTER 45: BLUFFING  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
169 
CHAPTER 46: BUYING A FREE CARD  
 
 
 
 
 
174 
CHAPTER 47: RAISING WITH A DRAW   
 
 
 
 
176 
CHAPTER 48: SEMI-BLUFF   
 
 
 
 
 
 
180 
CHAPTER 49: LEAVE YOURSELF OUTS   
 
 
 
 
184 
CHAPTER 50: THE FIVE PLAYER TYPES AND HOW TO BEAT THEM  187 
 
PART 7: ONLINE POKER  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200 
 
CHAPTER 51: ONLINE POKER VERSUS LIVE POKER  
 
 
201 
CHAPTER 52: WHY IT’S EASIER TO “TILT” ONLINE  
 
 
205 
CHAPTER 53: BOREDOM: THE BANKROLL ROBBER  
 
 
208 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
CHAPTER 54: WHY GOOD PLAYERS OFTEN PLAY BAD POKER ONLINE  
210 
CHAPTER 55: SETTING UP YOUR PLAYING SPACE                                     211 
CHAPTER 56: SIT & GO'S  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
213 
CHAPTER 57: ONLINE TELLS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
218 
 
CONCLUSION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
229 
 
 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
 
CHAPTER 1: HOW TO PLAY TEXAS HOLDEM 
CHAPTER 2: POKER DEFINITIONS AND SLANG 
CHAPTER 3: HAND RANKINGS 
CHAPTER 4: POKER ETIQUETTE 
CHAPTER 5: ARE YOU A RESPONSIBLE GAMBLER? 
CHAPTER 6: HOW TO HOST YOUR OWN HOME TOURNAMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY TEXAS HOLDEM 
 
Here’s how to play Texas Holdem…  
 
A hand of Texas Holdem starts with the two players of the left of the dealer putting in 
BLINDS—or, forced bets. Some games will require that all players at the table put in 
ANTES too… but we won’t get into that here. 
 
Anyway, there’s a SMALL BLIND and a BIG BLIND. The big blind is usually twice as 
much as the small blind, but not always. The blinds are determined before the hand 
starts. 
 
The REASON for blinds is to encourage action. As you’ll see, without blinds, players 
could just fold, fold, fold until they got pocket Aces (the best hand possible). 
 
Here’s what the table will look like: 
 
 
 
The dealer position usually has a small, round “button” in front of him, to signify 
positioning. That’s why you’ll often hear the words “on the button”… that’s the dealer 
position. 
 
When you play online poker, your blinds will usually be put in the pot automatically. 
You can turn this option off, but there’s no real reason to do so (unless you plan on 
leaving the table). 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
OK, so after two players put in their blinds, each player is dealt TWO CARDS face-down. 
These are called your “hole cards”. 
 
Example hole cards: 
 
 
 
 
Now, each player has the opportunity to CALL THE BLINDS, MAKE A RAISE, OR 
FOLD. If someone makes a raise, the next player will have to call the raise to stay in the 
hand. The action always moves clockwise. 
 
The person to the IMMEDIATE LEFT of the big blind is first to act. This player is known 
to be in FIRST POSITION… commonly referred to as “under the gun” (or “UTG”). 
 
If no one raises the pot, the last person to act is the player who puts in the big blind. He 
can either CHECK (and let the flop come out) or he can bet (and start another round of 
action at the table). This position of big blind (when no one has raised the pot) is said to 
have the “option”. 
 
Once everyone has called the bets and raises (or folded), it can be said that “the pot is 
good”. Now it’s time for the “flop”. 
 
The dealer places three cards face-UP on the center of the table… 
 
Example flop: 
 
 
 
 
 
Now another round of betting begins. For the rest of the hand, the action will start with 
the person to the IMMEDIATE LEFT of the dealer and move clockwise… with the dealer 
acting LAST in any round of action. 
 
Here’s what the table looks like: 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
 
Once the second round of betting is finished, the dealer places a FOURTH card on the 
table. This card is known as the “turn card” or “fourth street”. Once again, players are 
allowed to bet. 
 
Example turn card: 
 
 
 
Then finally, the dealer lays out the fifth and final card out on the “board”… this card is 
known as “fifth street” or the “river”. 
 
Example river card: 
 
 
 
A final round of betting begins. When this final round ends, the player who has the 
BEST FIVE CARDS (who hasn’t folded) wins the pot. 
 
Even though there are technically SEVEN cards in each person’s hand, ONLY THE 
BEST FIVE are considered. This is important when no one can “beat the board”. 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
For example, if the five cards on the board were all spades, and both players left in the 
hand didn’t have a spade, the outcome would be a SPLIT POT. Both players would get 
50% of the pot and the next hand would begin. 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
 
POKER DEFINITIONS AND SLANG 
 
Ace-High: A hand that only has an Ace as its highest card. This hand has no pairs, 
straights, or flushes.  
 
Aces Up: Two pairs when the higher pair is Aces. If a player has a pair of 8’s and a pair 
of Ace’s, he would say he has Aces up. 
 
Action: The act of putting chips into a pot. If a player makes a large bet and a lot of 
players call or raise, the player is getting a lot of action. 
 
Active Player, Active Hand, Active: Players who are still in contention for winning the 
hand. If six players are at a table and four fold, there are two active players.  
 
Add-On: When a tournament allows players to buy additional chips at a set point during 
the tournament. If a player pays for more chips to add to his current stack, he is buying 
an add-on.  
 
Advertise: When a player makes a deliberate move early in the game to convey a specific 
image. If a player plays a bad hand to showdown in order to give the impression that he 
is very loose, he is said to be advertising. 
 
Aggressive: A playing style that describes players who bet and raise large amounts 
during the hand. An aggressive player doesn’t necessarily play a lot of hands, but he 
does bet a lot in the hands he does participate in. If a player raises the pot before every 
flop he sees, the player is aggressive. 
 
Alabama Night Riders: Three Kings. 
 
All-In: When a player bets all of his chips on one hand. If a player makes a great hand 
and bets the rest of his chips, he is all-in. The option to bet any amount and go all-in is 
the key distinction between limit and no limit Texas Holdem.  
 
American Airlines: Another term to describe a pair of Aces, usually when they are the 
two down cards.  
 
 
 
- 15 - 
 
Angle or Angle Play: When a player seeks out a way to gain an edge over his competition. 
If a player is pretending he is acting like he will raise a player’s bet to scare him away, he 
is using an angle play. 
 
Ante: The forced amount that all players must put into the pot before the hand begins. 
Some games use blinds, some use antes, and others use a combination of both. (See: 
Blinds) 
 
Baby: A small card like a 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. If you have a pair of 4’s, you have a baby pair. 
 
Backdoor: A hand that requires the fourth and fifth cards on the table. If you need two 
consecutive spades after the flop in order to complete your flush, you have a backdoor 
flush draw. (See: Runner-Runner) 
 
Backing Into: While playing a certain hand, unintentionally completing a better hand. If 
you flop a straight, and then while playing that hand you catch a flush, you backed into 
the flush.  
 
Bad Beat: When you lose to a statistically worse hand. If only two cards will complete 
your opponent’s hand and he catches one of them, you will suffer a bad beat. 
 
Bankroll: The money that you have to play poker with. The size of your bankroll has a 
major impact on what stakes you can play. If you have a $1,000 bankroll, you cannot 
play $100-$200 limit poker. 
 
Belly Buster: When a player has four cards of a straight but needs a card in the middle of 
the straight to complete the straight. For example, if a player has 8d, 9h, Jc, Qs, he is on 
a belly buster straight draw (he needs the ten). 
 
Bet Blind: When a player makes a bet without even seeing the next card. After the flop, 
the player to the right of the dealer can bet blind before the next card is even turned over. 
This is also known as betting in the dark. You can also check blind. 
 
Bicycle: A popular slang term for using the Ace as a low card. For example, if the Ace 
was used with a 2, 3, 4, and 5 to form a straight. 
 
Big Blind: The larger of two forced bets made to the left of the dealer to ensure betting 
on every hand. The big blind is the player to the left of the small blind. 
 
Big Slick: Being dealt Ace-king at the beginning, one of the strongest starting hands you 
can get.  
 
 
 
- 16 - 
 
Big Bet: In limit poker, the larger of the two possible. If the game has a $5-$10 limit, $5 
is the small bet and $10 is the large bet. Big bets are allowed after the fourth card is 
turned over on the table.  
 
Blinded Out: Being forced out of a game by the forced blinds.  
 
Bluff: When a player pretends to have a strong hand in order to win the pot even when 
he doesn’t have good cards.  
 
Board: The community cards, or the cards everyone can use, turned face up on the table.  
 
Boat: A full-house. Also known as full-boat 
 
Bottom Pair: A pair of the lowest cards shown on the table. For example, if a 5, 7, 8, and 
Q are on the board, and you have a pair of fives, you have the bottom pair. 
 
Broadway: A straight with the Ace as the highest card: 10, J, Q, K, A. 
 
Bullets: A pair of Aces.  
 
Busted Hand: When a player was drawing to complete a hand but failed. If you hold four 
spades after the flop, but no more spades appear, you hold a busted hand. 
 
Bust: To run out of chips or money. 
 
Button: The small disc that travels around the table to indicate who is the dealer for the 
hand. This player is also the last one to act in every betting round after the flop, which 
means it’s the best positioning to have at the table. 
 
Buy-In: The amount of money that a player spends to play a certain poker game.  
 
Buying The Pot: Placing a huge bet to scare everyone into folding. 
 
Calling Station: A nickname given to a player who seems to call bets all the time, even 
when they don’t have a great hand. 
 
Calling Someone Down: When a player just calls every bet made by a player to avoid 
getting re-raised. This is done when a player wants to stay in the hand but has a 
marginal hand. 
 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
Cards Speak: At the end of the hand, the winner of the hand is the one with the best 
cards regardless what verbal announcement he makes. 
 
Chasing: Waiting for a card to be dealt that will complete your hand. 
 
Check raise: When a player checks to fake weakness only to raise the pot when it is his 
turn again. Players use the check raise to trap players when they hold good cards. 
 
Check Blind: Same as betting blind. Checking before you even see the next card. Same as 
a check in the dark. 
 
Coin-Flip: When two hands are statistically even (or close to it) and the winner will be 
based on luck. 
 
Cold Deck: A deck that has been arranged by cheating players to con honest players out 
of their money.  
 
Community Cards: The cards that are turned face up on the table and can be used by 
any of the players in the hand. (Same as the board.)  
 
Cowboys: Kings. 
 
Dead Money: Money put into the pot by players who have folded their hands.  
 
Deuces: A pair of 2’s. 
 
Double Belly Buster: When two different cards can complete a hand. For example if you 
have 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, either a 3 or an 8 will give you a straight. This is also known as a 
double gut shot. 
 
Down Cards: The two cards that are dealt face down to each player at the beginning of 
every hand.  
 
Draw: When a player holds a hand that still needs cards to be complete. If a player is 
holding four spades, but needs a fifth spade for a flush, that player is on a flush draw. 
 
Drawing Dead: When a player holds a hand that cannot possibly win against an 
opponent’s hand, no matter what remaining cards are dealt.  
 
Ducks: A pair of 2’s.  
 
 
 
 
- 18 - 
Early Position: The first players who act in each round of betting. Players acting in early 
position must be pickier about what cards they play.  
 
Easy Money: Money won from new, inexperienced, or untalented players.  
 
Expected Action: A prediction about what moves a player will make later on in the hand. 
If you are thinking about making a bet, but you expect another player will raise you, you 
are taking an expected action into consideration. 
 
Exempted Outs: Cards that can be dealt that will improve your hand, but will help other 
players more. If you hold AsKs, the Ad would improve your hand, but if there were 
already 3 diamonds on the table, it is likely that the Ad is an exempted out (because it 
helps someone make a flush). 
 
Face Card: A Jack, Queen or King. 
 
Family Pot: A hand where many people are involved in the action.  
 
Feeler bet: A small bet made to get an idea of what the other players are holding.  
 
Fifth Street: The fifth and final card turned over, also known as the river. 
 
First Position: The first person to act in a round of betting. This is the worst positioning 
to have. Before the flop, the first position (to the left of the big blind) is also known as 
under the gun.  
 
Fish: A bad player that is easily beaten. These players are either new to the game or are 
simply poor players. The opposite of a fish is a shark. You want to be the shark. 
 
Flop: The first three community cards simultaneously turned over by the dealer.  
 
Flush Draw: When a player holds four cards of a certain suit and is waiting for a fifth 
suited card to complete his flush. 
 
Fourth Street: The fourth community card turned over, also known as the turn card.  
 
Freeroll: A poker tournament where players are not forced to risk any money to play, 
but are able to win real money or prizes. 
 
Full House: A poker hand consisting of three of a kind and a pair. Also known as a full 
boat.  
 
 
 
 
- 19 - 
Garbage Hand: A bad hand to be folded quickly. 
 
Gorillas: A pair of Kings.  
 
Grinder: A poker player who plays tight but wins consistently. 
 
Gutshot: An inside straight draw. (See: Belly Buster) 
 
Heads Up: When all but two of the players have been eliminated and the game is being 
played one-on-one. 
 
High Card: When the winner of a hand is determined by whoever has the highest card. 
This only occurs when no players have a pair or better.  
 
Hit: When a player who is on a draw catches a card that completes his hand, he hits his 
card.  
 
Hit And Run: When a player plays for a short time, wins a big hand, and then quickly 
leaves the room. This is looked down upon by most poker players.  
 
Hole Cards: The two face-down cards dealt to all players at the beginning of the hand, 
also known as the pocket cards.  
 
Hooks: Pair of Jacks 
 
Implied Odds: When calculating pot odds, making assumptions about future action and 
incorporating that information into your decision. For example, if you have a flush draw 
after the flop and a player makes a bet. It is reasonable to assume that if you complete 
your hand, you will be able to increase the size of the pot to maximize your winnings.  
 
In The Dark: Making a move before you even see the next card. See also: Bet Blind and 
Check Blind. 
 
Jackal: Slang term for a player who makes erratic, unexplainable bets and raises. Jackals 
are also known as manics.   
 
Kicker: The card that is used to break ties when two players have the same hand or high 
card. 
 
Lady: A Queen. A pair of Queens is usually referred to as ladies. 
 
 
 
 
- 20 - 
Late Position: The players who are not forced to act until the other players have already 
acted for that specific round of betting. Late position is preferable to early position. 
 
Limit Poker: A type of poker that sets specific betting limits on the players.  
 
Limp In: Only calling the blinds, and not raising the pot. This usually encourages other 
players to raise the pot.  
 
Live Hand: A hand that can still win because it hasn’t been folded and isn’t drawing 
dead. 
 
Lock: A hand that is a sure win, also known as the nuts.  
 
Loose: A playing style where players play a lot of hands. Loose players don’t wait for 
premium hands before the flop to play. These players are the opposite of tight players.  
 
Loose Calls: When bad players make the wrong decision to call you when you have a 
better hand.  
 
Main Pot: At the beginning of every hand, all chips are placed in the main pot. If a 
player goes all-in and there are other players still in the hand, a side pot is formed. The 
player who is all-in is only eligible to win the money in the main pot. 
 
Manic: A wild, reckless player who will play as many pots as possible and bets big and 
unpredictably. 
 
Monster: An extremely good hand.  
 
Motown: When a players hole cards are J-5, derived from Jackson Five. 
 
Muck: To fold your hands by throwing them face-down into the pile of folded cards 
without showing the competition.  
 
No limit: Variation of poker that has no limits on how much money can be spent. At any 
point in time, any player can bet all his chips on a single hand.  
 
Nuts: The best possible hand at any given point in time.  
 
Nut Flush: The flush including the Ace of the flushed suit.  
 
Off-Suit: When two cards are not of the same suit. 
 
 
 
 
- 21 - 
Open, Opener: The first person to bet in a round of action. 
 
Open Ended: A straight the can be completed with a card either higher or lower (i.e. you 
have 6, 7, 8, 9 either a 5 or a 10 will complete your straight.) 
 
Outs: Possible cards that can be dealt that will give you a winning hand.  
 
Outdraw: When you beat an opponent based on the cards that you draw, not your own 
ability.  
 
Overcard: A card higher than any card on the board. If the board reads: 4, 7, 9 and you 
hold K, 5 you’re holding one overcard (K). 
 
Over pair: When you have a pocket pair that is larger then any of the cards on the table. 
If you hold pocket Queens, and the flop comes 10, 4, 8, you have an over pair.  
 
Over The Top: Raising another person after they have raised you.  
 
Over-Betting The Pot / Over-Bet: Making a bet that is too large considering the size of 
the pot. If you bet $100 to win a $2 pot, you are over-betting the pot.  
 
Paint: Face cards. 
 
Passive: A player who doesn’t like to bet or raise much. These players will call, but are 
not aggressive with their play.  
 
Pocket: The two face-down cards dealt to all players at the start of the hand, also known 
as the hole cards.  
 
Pocket Pairs: When the two pocket cards form a pair.  
 
Position: A players spot at the table relative to the dealer button and when they have to 
act. Early position is one of the first to act. Late position is one of the last to act. 
 
Position Bet: A bet made more on the power of the player’s position than on the strength 
of their hand.  
 
Pot-committed: Staying in a hand against logic because you have already bet too many 
chips to fold. 
 
Pot-Limit: Variety of poker where the bet cannot exceed the size of the current pot.  
 
 
 
 
- 22 - 
Pot Odds: A risk/reward ratio for a poker hand. If you are on a nut flush draw, odds 
against you winning are about 5:1. If there is a $20 bet to call and the pot is $140, you 
are getting 7:1 on your money if you hit. These are profitable pot odds, so you should 
make the call.   
 
Presto: Pocket fives. 
 
Pre-Flop: Action that takes place before the flop comes out.  
 
Prop Player: A player who earns money for playing at certain tables as decided by they 
poker room or casino.  
 
Protecting The Blinds: When a player in the big blind calls a raise because he has 
already put money into the pot.  
 
Pulling The Trigger: Going all-in with a hand when you are the short stack.  
 
Put Them On A Hand: Guessing what a player is holding without seeing the cards based 
on their betting patters. 
 
Quads: Four of a kind.  
 
Rabbit Hunt: Turning over the last card even after everyone has folded out the hand and 
someone already won the hand.  
 
Rake: The money that a poker room or casino takes from every pot as profit. 
 
Ran Down: When one loses a lot of chips in a hand to an inferior hand with a lucky draw.  
 
Read: When you can tell what a player is holding based on his behavior and betting.  
 
Reagan: When you are dealt 3-9 as your pocket cards. 
 
Re-Buy: When a tournament allows you to buy more chips even after you have been 
eliminated from the game.  
 
Represent The Flop: Betting as though the flop strengthened your hand.  
 
River: The fifth and final card dealt out on the table.  
 
Rock: A very tight player. 
 
 
 
 
- 23 - 
Rockets: A pair of Aces. 
 
Run: When a player begins to win several hands in a row and has momentum working 
for him. Also known as a rush. 
 
Runner-Runner: When a player has to catch two specific cards in a row in order to make 
their hand.  
 
Scare Card: A card that could complete an opponents hand and make his cards stronger 
than yours. For instance, let’s you have pocket Kings and the flop comes out: 8, A, 10. 
The Ace is a scare card because someone with an Ace will now have a better hand than 
you. 
 
Set: Three of a kind. 
 
Semi-Bluff: When a player makes a bet to win the pot with a mediocre hand or draw.  
 
Semi-Connectors: Cards that are separated by one card. 7 and 9 are semi-connectors.  
 
Short Man Table: When the table that table that you are playing at has had some players 
eliminated leaving less than the normal amount of players.  
 
Short Stack: The player at the table with the fewest chips.  
 
Shorthanded: When a table has less than 6 players remaining.  
 
Showdown: At the end of the hand, after all the action is over, when the players turn 
over their cards to determine the winner of the hand.  
 
Side Pot: The pot used to hold bets after a player has already gone all-in. The remaining 
players put their bets into a side pot that the all-in player is ineligible to win.  
 
Slow Play: Playing a strong hand like it was weak in an effort to entice other players to 
make large bets.  
 
Small Blind: The smaller of two forced bets to ensure betting on every hand. 
 
Smooth Call: When a player calls a bet even though his hand is strong enough to raise 
with. This is to trick the opponents into thinking his hand is weak.  
 
Split Pot: When two players have hands of equal value, the pot is split and each player 
gets an equal amount.  
 
 
 
- 24 - 
 
String Bet: An illegal move by players to place chips into a pot, then put more in a 
moment later. Instead players must put their entire bet in at one time or call out the 
amount of their bet before they put any chips into the pot. 
 
Suited-Connectors: Two sequential cards that are of the same suit (examples: 8h, 9h or 
Js, Qs). 
 
Table Talk: Chatting with opponents to intimidate or confuse them.  
 
Tell: A signal, habit, or mannerism that tells other players at the table the strength or 
weakness of your hand.  
 
The Nuts: The best possible cards for the hand. You have the nuts when no hand can 
possibly beat yours. 
 
Tight: A player who doesn’t play a lot of hands. These players are the opposite of loose 
players.  
 
Tilt: An emotional state where players act irrationally because they are upset about the 
game or a previous hand. 
 
Trap: When you play so another player bets when you have the stronger hand.  
 
Trips: Three of a kind. 
 
Turn/River: The last two cards dealt after the flop. 
 
Under The Gun: The first person to act in the hand before the flop. This person is 
directly to the left of the big blind.  
 
Value Bet: A bet made to increase the size of the pot, but not scare weak opponents away, 
when a player has a solid hand.  
 
Verbalizing: Stating to yourself the reasoning for a certain move.  
 
Wheel: A straight using the Ace as a low card: A, 2, 3, 4, 5. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 25 - 
 
HAND RANKINGS 
 
The following is a list of hand rankings, starting with the strongest: 
 
Royal Flush: 10, J, Q, K, A of the same suit, this is the strongest hand in all of poker. 
Example: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Straight Flush: Any series of five consecutive cards of the same suit. Example:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Four Of A Kind: Any hand with four cards of the same rank. (The fifth card does not 
matter.) Example: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full House: A hand that consists of three cards of the same rank and two other cards of 
the same rank. In other words, a full house is a three-of-a-kind with a pair. Example: 
 
 
 
 
- 26 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A full house is referenced as the three cards “full of” the pair. For example, the hand 
above would be referred as “kings full of sixes”. 
 
Flush: When the hand has five cards of the same suit. It doesn’t matter the rank of the 
cards, so long as they are all the same suit – like Spades or Diamonds. If two players 
have a flush, then the player with the highest card of that suit wins the hand. If the 
highest cards are equal, move to the second, then to the third, etc. Example: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Straight: Five sequential cards of any suit. If two players have straights, the straight with 
the highest card wins. Example: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three-Of-A-Kind: Three cards of equal rank. Also known as “trips”. Example: 
 
 
 
 
 
Two Pairs: Two pairs of cards of equal rank. Example: 
 
 
 
 
- 27 - 
 
 
 
 
 
Pair: Two cards of equal rank. Example: 
 
 
 
 
High Card: A hand that doesn’t form any of these combinations. If comparing two of 
these hands, whichever player has the highest card is the winner. Example: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In hands where the combinations are the same (like if two players have three Kings), 
then the tie is broken with the kicker or the highest card that the players have NOT in 
the combination (not a King). Whichever player has the higher kicker is the winner of 
the hand. If two players have the exact same five cards, the plot is split and the players 
equally divide the pot.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 28 - 
 
POKER ETIQUETTE 
 
Before we get started into the strategies, let’s talk about poker etiquette… There are 
three primary reasons to always use proper poker etiquette at the table: 
 
1. It shows respect for the GAME. 
2. It shows respect for the PLAYERS. 
3. Your opponents won’t “gun” for you. 
 
The first two reasons SHOULD be enough to convince you to use proper etiquette… but 
the third reason is the icing on the cake. 
 
When you don’t follow the fundamental rules of poker etiquette, other players will 
become annoyed, angry, or whatever. The result is ugly. 
 
The absolute LAST thing you want happening is all of your opponents BADLY 
WANTING YOU GONE. It alters the way the game is played… and NOT in your favor. 
Players will raise you when you’re in the blinds… use trap plays… and “gang up” on you 
whenever possible. 
 
For instance, let’s say you’re short stacked and you go all-in before the flop. Your 
opponent is holding Queens, so he calls. ANOTHER opponent knows that he probably 
SHOULDN’T call with his K-J, but that doesn’t matter. He knows the odds that you lose 
the hand will INCREASE if he plays, so he calls too. 
 
See what I mean? 
 
I’ve seen this type of thing happen all the time to players who don’t adhere to proper 
etiquette. Plus, players who earn a negative reputation at the poker table are less likely 
to find as many games. 
 
OK, so we’ve established that not using proper etiquette is a BAD IDEA. Now let’s 
discuss what poker etiquette REALLY IS… and how to follow it. 
 
 
 
 
- 29 - 
First off, refrain from excessive trash talk. A little table talk is okay… I actually 
recommend it… but not TRASH talk. 
 
For instance, when an amateur player chases a gutshot straight draw and HITS, the guy 
at the table who got burnt usually gets bitter. I’ll often hear things like, “You f’in idiot, 
don’t you know you’re not supposed to play stuff like that?!” 
 
Don’t be like this. 
 
Just stick to your game and your strategies. 
 
Other players think it’s a GOOD idea to harass or try to INTIMIDATE the other players 
at the table… they think it will help them win. 
 
For instance, just last night I heard a player bullying one of the younger guys at our table. 
He kept asking him, “Do you like to suck on gas pipes? C’mon, do you?” 
 
It made everyone at the table feel uncomfortable. And it created an atmosphere where 
everyone started secretly “gunning” for this arrogant a**hole. 
 
And I don’t think it to be coincidence that he was one of the first guys eliminated from 
the table. 
 
OK, so I’ve made my point. No trash talk. 
 
The next rule for poker etiquette is to never play your hands out of turn. Sometimes, of 
course, this may happen by accident. If that’s the case, start paying closer attention to 
the game. 
 
But what I mean here is when guys play out of turn in order to achieve some type of 
STRATEGIC GOAL. 
 
For example, let’s say Richard is in the big blind and he’s got A-5 suited. Everyone at the 
table either folds or limps-in and it’s around to the guy in the small blind… who seems to 
be contemplating a raise. 
 
Richard, who would like to see a cheap flop here, doesn’t want the player in the small 
blind to raise the pot. So he reaches for a large stack of chips and puts them in the 
middle… or, he reaches for a big stack and ACTS like he’s about to bet. Or, he could even 
say something like, “Raise.” 
 
 
 
 
- 30 - 
The particulars are not important. The point is, Richard KNOWS that it’s not his turn. 
What he’s trying to do is get the player in the small blind to NOT raise the pot… by 
scaring him into thinking he’s got a great hand. When the player in the small blind 
decides to just call the blinds because of Richard’s behavior (I used the name Richard 
for a reason!), Richard then decides to just CHECK when it REALLY IS his turn. 
 
This is bad poker etiquette. Do stuff like this and it WILL come back to haunt you, I can 
promise you that. 
 
Okay, let’s talk about third… and perhaps MOST IMPORTANT rule of poker etiquette. 
There are obviously tons of poker etiquette rules that I could spout out… but the others 
are mostly just common sense. 
 
This third rule is this: 
 
NEVER LOOK AT ANOTHER PLAYER’S DOWN CARDS. 
 
The only time you are allowed to see another player’s cards is when the hand is over and 
you have called his bet. If he places a bet and you fold, you are NOT allowed to see his 
cards. Period. 
 
I know, I know… you’re absolutely DYING to know whether or not he bluffed you. Just 
get over it! 
 
Looking at another player’s down cards is CHEATING. Because what it’s doing is giving 
you information about a player’s betting habits that can be used later in the game. 
 
In my opinion, this is just as bad as leaning over and looking at another player’s cards 
DURING THE HAND! 
 
What’s perhaps even WORSE than picking up a player’s down cards after the hand and 
looking at them is doing it in a sneaky way that NO ONE KNOWS ABOUT. This happens 
in home games all the time. 
 
For instance, let’s say Darren bets 800 in chips on the river and Jack folds. Jack had top 
pair but is afraid Darren had him beat with the flush. Now, Jack REALLY wants to know 
if he just got bluffed out of that pot. 
 
Darren puts his two down cards on the table and rakes in his chips. Meanwhile, it’s 
Jack’s turn to shuffle. So he collects all the cards that are scattered around the table. 
 
Now here’s what players will do all the time… 
 
 
 
- 31 - 
 
Jack will watch Darren’s two down cards and intentionally position them at the 
BOTTOM of the deck. Then, he’ll simply keep them on the bottom and gradually sneak a 
glance at each of the cards… or maybe he’ll do it after positioning them at the top. 
 
Either way, Jack has gained a valuable piece of information about the hand, but has also 
ruined the integrity of his own game. 
 
This little maneuver happens way more often than you’d expect. Even with the most 
honest players. 
 
So what should YOU do about it? 
 
Well, for starters, you should NOT be one of these CHEATS. Secondly, when you make a 
bet and everyone folds, make sure you don’t just throw your cards into the muck in an 
easy-to-spot location. Just nonchalantly mix your cards up with the others on the table. 
 
And last but not least… if you suspect that someone is doing this or WILL do this and he 
gets into this position, simply grab the winning two down cards (even if they’re not 
yours) and shuffle them into the mix yourself. 
 
This will prevent the bad guy from cheating. And it will also give him a subtle message 
that you’re on to him. 
 
OK, so that wraps up our discussion of poker etiquette. 
 
No trash talk, no acting out of turn, and no looking at another player’s cards. The rest of 
poker etiquette is just the common sense stuff that you learned way back when you were 
in Kindergarten. Remember, it’s in YOUR OWN SELF INTEREST to use proper poker 
etiquette at the table. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 32 - 
 
ARE YOU A RESPONSIBLE GAMBLER? 
 
Responsible gambling is good gambling. Below is a 20-item questionnaire published by 
Gamblers Anonymous (reproduced with permission) regarding gambling addiction. 
 
Answer these twenty questions honestly and carefully. If you answer “yes” to seven or 
more questions, you may have a gambling problem. Please contact Gamblers 
Anonymous by going to their website: www.GamblersAnonymous.org.  
 
I strongly urge you to pass this on to fellow poker players as well who you may think is 
in danger of having a problem. 
 
1. Did you ever lose time from work or school due to gambling?  
2. Has gambling ever made your home life unhappy? 
3. Did gambling affect your reputation? 
4. Have you ever felt remorse after gambling? 
5. Did you ever gamble to get money with which to pay debts or otherwise solve 
financial difficulties? 
6. Did gambling cause a decrease in your ambition or efficiency? 
7. After losing did you feel you must return as soon as possible and win back your 
losses? 
8. After a win did you have a strong urge to return and win more? 
9. Did you often gamble until your last dollar was gone? 
10. Did you ever borrow to finance your gambling? 
11. Have you ever sold anything to finance gambling? 
12. Were you reluctant to use "gambling money" for normal expenditures? 
13. Did gambling make you careless of the welfare of yourself or your family? 
14. Did you ever gamble longer than you had planned? 
15. Have you ever gambled to escape worry or trouble? 
16. Have you ever committed, or considered committing, an illegal act to finance 
gambling? 
17. Did gambling cause you to have difficulty in sleeping? 
18. Do arguments, disappointments or frustrations create within you an urge to 
gamble? 
 
 
 
- 33 - 
19. Did you ever have an urge to celebrate any good fortune by a few hours of 
gambling? 
20. Have you ever considered self destruction or suicide as a result of your gambling? 
 
 
 
 
- 34 - 
 
HOW TO HOST YOUR OWN HOME TOURNAMENT 
 
I began hosting my own poker tournaments at a very young age. I would have a 
tournament every Monday night (with Monday night football on in the background) at 
my house. The buy-in was just $5. 
 
At first we’d get a turnout of just 10-15 “regulars”. After a few months we started getting 
20 players… then 30… and then MORE.  
 
The buy-ins grew… 
 
Soon we had to move the tournament to Sundays at 4 P.M., because each one was 
lasting so long and we needed more time. 
 
And it just kept growing… and the stakes kept getting higher... 
 
At that point, I was living in a two-story house. Before I knew it, I had three poker tables 
in the basement and one table in each room… including the kitchen. The place looked 
like a fraternity house combined with a casino. It was crazy. 
 
But then… after many happy and successful years… it finally got out of hand. Strangers 
were showing up from other towns. Players were cheating. Fights broke out. Neighbors 
kept complaining. And the stakes were getting too high. 
 
The last game I hosted had 70 players show up. People were STANDING at the tables 
while they played, because there weren’t enough chairs, seats, and flat surfaces to sit on. 
 
I decided enough was enough. The card game was moved to a nearby country club, 
where it still goes on today… hosted by some friends of mine. 
 
Of course, I still remember those home poker tournaments like they were yesterday. 
Because that’s where I got my poker education and built my original bankroll… starting 
all the way from measly $5 buy-in games.  
 
 
 
 
- 35 - 
I got to meet and know a wide range of players of all ages… I made countless “poker 
friends” to travel to tournaments and casinos with… and I learned the game inside and 
out. 
 
So that’s what this bonus report is about: how to successfully host your own home poker 
tournament. Hosting your own game can be an extremely valuable way to improve your 
skills quickly while meeting fellow poker enthusiasts. And it’s a great way to make 
money (or lose it). OK… let’s get started. 
GETTING STARTED 
 
The first step to hosting your own tournament is figuring out WHERE you’re going to 
have it. If you’re on a “shoestring budget”, the kitchen table (or counter) will probably be 
your location of choice. You can buy fold-out poker table tops for pretty cheap… and 
then upgrade to a real poker table as soon as you build your winnings. 
 
You’ll want to buy poker CHIPS before investing in a table. Nice poker chips can 
dramatically improve the “feel” of the game. Even just the SOUND of chips clanking 
together makes for a better “poker atmosphere”. 
 
Plus, real chips will allow you and your friends to learn chip tricks, which makes things 
more fun and entertaining. 
 
As for the cards, pretty much any regular playing deck will do. If you don’t have a real 
dealer button, just use a random household item. I’ve used everything from half-dollar 
coins to blank CDs to duct tape. 
 
You can also easily create your own “cut card” that goes on the bottom of the deck. This 
is used so that people can’t see the bottom card when someone shuffles. Basically, all 
you have to do is tape the two Jokers together. Make it so they face each other. The 
result is a “card” that’s double the thickness of the rest of the cards, which is perfect for 
using as the cut card. 
 
BUY-INS 
 
Choose a buy-in amount that makes sense. $20 is a pretty common buy-in level for 
many poker games, since most people can fork out twenty bucks for multiple hours of 
entertainment. 
 
If you’d like to “up the stakes”-- without making the buy-in too high-- just make it a 
tournament that allows re-buys. That will increase the final purse considerably. And no 
one will go home wondering how they’re going to pay for next month’s rent. 
 
 
 
 
- 36 - 
CHIP COUNTS 
 
I like to start everyone off with $1,000 in chips. This number is high enough to have 
multiple chip denominations… but low enough to not get confusing. But of course, it’s 
up to you. 
 
Count out the chips BEFORE everyone gets to your house… and consider putting each 
set into a Ziploc baggy. This is a common-sense way to prevent cheating. 
 
Here’s one way to break up the chips: 
 
1 green $500 chip 
2 black $100 chips 
8 white $25 chips 
5 blue $10 chips 
10 red $5 chips 
 
Of course, the exact colors and combinations don’t matter. 
 
The one thing that DOES matter is that you keep your chip starting amounts and your 
colors the SAME from game to game. That way players who frequently attend your 
tournaments don’t get confused. 
 
ANTES AND BLINDS 
 
It’s CRUCIAL that you decide on your blind and ante schedule at the beginning of the 
game, before it starts. You want to adjust (raise) the blinds every 20 minutes. Raising 
the blinds keeps the action going… and prevents the game from lasting too long.  
 
Find an alarm, stopwatch, or poker clock to use to remind you when it’s time to adjust 
the blinds. When you’ve decided on a blind and ante schedule, write it down and make it 
accessible to all players… as this affects fundamental game strategy. 
 
Here’s a recommended blind structure if each player is starting with $1,000 in chips: 
 
Level 1: $5 - $10 
Level 2: $10 - $20 
Level 3: $15 - $30 
Level 4: $20 - $40 
Level 5: $25 - $50 
Level 6: $30 - $60 
Level 7: $40 - $80 
 
 
 
- 37 - 
Level 8: $50 - $100 
Level 9: $75 - $150 
Level 10: $100 - $200 
Level 11: $150 - $300 
Level 12: $200 - $400 
 
Notice that your blind structure is largely dependent on how long you want the 
tournament to last. If you need to finish up within two hours, you’ll obviously want to 
raise the blinds more substantially at each level. This recommended structure is for 
about a four-hour game. 
 
COLLECTING MONEY 
 
When you’re collecting player buy-ins, do it BEFORE the tournament starts. Try to keep 
change on hand since not everyone will bring the exact bills needed. 
 
Also, when you collect the money, line everyone up and do it one person at a time. This 
decreases the likelihood of conflict and makes it easier on you. 
 
DRAWING FOR SEATS 
 
After the money is collected, draw for seats. I’ve been to many home poker tournaments 
where the players don’t draw for seats. This is a mistake. The reason is because WHO 
you’re sitting next to has a definite impact on how the game goes. 
 
For instance, let’s say John and Jack were the two loosest players at the table… but were 
also best friends, so they always ended up sitting next to each other. Having the two 
loosest players right next to each other at every tournament will ultimately change the 
way that game plays out. 
 
In order to help you become the best card player possible, you don’t want “incongruent” 
situations like this arising. You want to keep it “random”. The solution is simple: draw 
for seats. 
 
Here’s how to do it… 
 
If you’re at an 8-man table, take out the Ace-8 of any specific suit. In other words, pull 
out these cards: 
 
Ace  
Two 
Three 
 
 
 
- 38 - 
Four 
Five 
Six  
Seven  
Eight 
 
For our purposes here, the Ace can be thought of as the number “one”. 
 
OK, so then shuffle the eight cards up effectively and make each player draw a card. 
Each card number has a corresponding SEAT number. So whoever draws the four gets 
seat four. Whoever gets the seven gets seat seven. And so on. 
 
If you’ve got more than eight players… or fewer than eight players… just adjust the 
number of cards you draw from accordingly. 
 
PAYOUTS 
 
Determine the payouts BEFORE the game begins. The easiest way to do it is by using 
PERCENTAGES of the total purse (the “purse” is the amount of money from all the buy-
ins added together). 
 
Here are two common ways to structure the payout for a smaller tournament: 
 
1st Place: 70% 
2nd Place: 20% 
3rd Place: 10% 
 
1st Place: 60% 
2nd Place: 25% 
3rd Place: 15% 
 
If you’ve got sixteen or more players (which means you’ll have at least two tables going), 
you’ll want to expand the payout to cover more of the top finishers. 
 
But remember… the most important thing is to decide the payout BEFORE a single card 
gets dealt.  
 
DRAWING FOR THE BUTTON 
 
Draw for the dealer button at the beginning of the game. Do this by dealing one card to 
each player. Whoever gets the highest card first gets the button. 
 
 
 
 
- 39 - 
 
RE-BUY POLICY 
 
Determine a re-buy policy before the game. The re-buy policy must include three main 
components: 
 
1. Are re-buys allowed? 
2. If so, for what length of time are re-buys allowed? 
3. What’s the maximum number of re-buys per person? 
 
Be careful with this. Many amateurs allow unlimited re-buys for a given time period, but 
this can cause problems. 
 
For instance, let’s say your buy-in is $20, and most players at your tournament are only 
willing to re-buy once… maybe twice. 
 
But meanwhile, say there are a couple players who are willing to re-buy many, many 
times, because for them the money doesn’t matter as much. 
 
The problem with this type of situation is that the playing styles will be incongruent. 
One player will be more conservative… not planning to reload if he goes out… and 
another player will be willing to go all-in on hands like A-Q, K-J, etc. 
 
What happens is the player who’s willing to burn a couple hundred bucks will usually 
come out on top… because he can play more aggressively, make lots of all-in bets, and 
double up on his opponents. 
 
The point is this: create a re-buy policy that makes things FAIR and FUN for everyone.  
 
DISPUTES 
 
Ultimately, if you’re hosting a tournament you’ll run into disputes. When a dispute 
occurs, you must wear the cap of “tournament director” and make the final decision 
about the matter. Fortunately, most disputes can be prevented in advance with just a 
little preparation. 
 
At the beginning of the game, set forth the rules for specific situations. If you’re going to 
host your tournament on a regular basis, you’ll want to put these rules on paper. 
 
Here are some of the main areas of the game where disputes arise from: 
 
• Players who leave in the middle of the game 
 
 
 
- 40 - 
• What to do in the case of misdeals 
• The minimum bet and raise amounts 
• How pots and payouts will be split (i.e. if two players go out at once) 
• Hand rankings 
• Shuffling and cutting cards 
 
If a player has to leave the game permanently, his chips are forfeited and split among 
the players at the table. If he has to leave temporarily, he’s responsible for the antes and 
blinds that occur in his absence… but he can still stay in the game. 
 
If there’s a misdeal for hole cards, the cards should be shuffled and dealt again. If there’s 
a misdeal with the community cards (i.e. someone forgets a burn card), it’s best to make 
the policy that the cards remain in the same intended order. 
 
For instance, if someone deals out a flop A-J-8… but forgot the burn card… then the Ace 
should become the burn card and another card must be dealt to complete the flop. 
 
Minimum bets should equal the big blind… and minimum raises should equal the 
original bet or raise. For example… if Drew raises 200, Terry can’t raise 100 more to 300. 
He must raise at least 200 more. 
 
Split pots are simple. If two players tie in a hand, they split the pot 50/50.  
 
If two players go out of the game at the same time, their “place” is determined by how 
many chips they had BEFORE the hand started. 
 
For example… let’s say Drew is chip leader, Jill is in second, and Terry is in third. If Jill 
and Terry both go out on the SAME HAND, Jill gets second place and Terry gets third. 
This is the case EVEN IF Terry had a better hand than Jill. 
 
For hand rankings, all you have to do is follow the rules. The hand rankings (from best 
to worst) are: 
 
Royal Flush 
Straight Flush 
Four Of A Kind 
Full House 
Flush 
Straight 
Three-Of-A-Kind 
Two Pairs 
 
 
 
- 41 - 
Pair 
High Card 
 
And as for “cutting” the cards, it’s really up to you. At my home tournaments, we had a 
policy that the dealer always offered the person to his right to cut the deck. That keeps it 
fair and prevents suspicion of cheating. 
 
RACING OFF CHIPS 
 
As your tournament progresses, it becomes necessary to “race off chips” to get rid of the 
smallest denominations. 
 
For example, if sixteen players started with $1,000 in chips each, the $5 chip will no 
longer be useful when the field gets down to eight players. So the solution is to cash 
them in for higher denominations. 
 
Here’s how it’s done: 
 
First, one player at the table (usually the chip leader) serves as the “bank”. Everyone 
exchanges their small chips with the bank in as many ways as possible.  
 
For instance, let’s say you’re getting rid of the $10 chips at the table. If Drew has six $10 
chips, he’ll give five of them to the “bank” in exchange for two $25 chips. If Shelia has 
ten $10 chips, she’ll exchange them with the bank for one $100 chip. 
 
Next, everyone with “leftover” chips (that didn’t divide evenly) race them off. For each 
leftover chip, the player gets one card. The two players with the highest cards get the 
leftover chips. And then they exchange them with the banker. 
 
Finally, the banker exchanges all of the low denomination chips with the chip case, and 
regular play resumes. 
 
Exactly HOW you race off chips isn’t important. I’ve seen it done several different ways. 
Once again, what’s important is that you decide in advance and keep a consistent policy 
in your tournaments. 
 
POST RESULTS 
 
A good way to host a successful tournament is to get the email addresses of all the 
players who attend. Then, when the game is over, email everyone the results and a 
“recap” of how the night went. This is useful for players who went out early and went 
home… but were still interested in the results. 
 
 
 
- 42 - 
 
This is also an incredibly useful tool for getting players COME BACK and attend your 
tournaments. When you decide to have a game, just send out an invite to your email list.  
 
You don’t have to get on the phone and call everyone… and it’s an efficient way to send 
updates to keep everyone connected. 
 
Last but not least… if you’re really serious about it, you can make your tournament a 
“poker league” and keep track of everyone’s winnings over time. You can divide the 
tournaments into “seasons” and track who’s made the most money, have a season-
ending “major”, and so on. You can even post the current stats to a website or blog. 
 
OK, that’s about it. Using this information, you’ll be well on your way to hosting your 
own successful home poker tournaments.  
 
Good luck!  
 
 
 
 
- 43 - 
 
 
CHAPTER 7: UNDER THE GUN 
CHAPTER 8: FIRST POSITION AFTER THE FLOP 
CHAPTER 9: LATE POSITIONING 
CHAPTER 10: ON THE BUTTON 
CHAPTER 11: WATCH THE GUN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 44 - 
 
UNDER THE GUN 
 
First position before the flop is perhaps the HARDEST position to play at the entire 
table. This position is nicknamed “under the gun”.  
 
Makes sense to me… 
 
Under the gun is the first player to act as soon as the cards are dealt. It’s the person to 
sitting immediately to the left of the big blind.  
 
After the flop, under the gun is still an early position (assuming you’re at an 8-man table 
or larger), which makes things worse. 
 
The secret to playing first position pre-flop is to only play PREMIUM HANDS. Don’t 
play the same hands as you’d normally play in other positions. 
 
Let’s demonstrate exactly WHY under the gun is so difficult with this example… 
 
OK, so let’s say you’re in first position before the flop at your local $1-2 no limit cash 
game and you look down at your cards: 
 
 
 
 
This is a fairly strong hand that you’d normally play. Hell, you may even raise with this 
hand from time to time. 
 
But you should NOT play this hand under the gun. It’s only going to get you into trouble. 
And here’s why…  
 
 
 
 
- 45 - 
Let’s say you call the $2 big blind with your Q-J off-suit in hopes of seeing a cheap flop. 
The action goes around the 8-man table and Darren comes out firing with a pre-flop 
raises. 
 
“Make it $10 to play”, he says. 
 
And now, you realize you’ve thrown away your $2. Or, you’re about to throw away an 
even bigger stack of chips. 
 
Think about it: How often will the action go around the table WITHOUT a pre-flop raise? 
Not very often. The odds are someone is going to raise the pot, and playing your QJ is 
now trouble because there are a lot of hands that will just have you DOMINATED. 
 
OK, so let’s say you’re not-too-bright (euphemism) and you decide to call Darren’s raise 
and see a flop… 
 
Everyone else has mucked their cards. 
 
Now, here’s where it gets really ugly. You KNOW that Darren has a strong hand. What 
are you looking for with this flop? The only thing that can really help you is if both a 
Queen and a Jack hit on the flop… or maybe a 9 and a 10 to give you the straight draw. 
 
If Darren has A-Q, A-J, A-K, K-Q, or K-J you’re in trouble. Those hands put you at about 
a 3:1 underdog. Not a good place to be. 
 
If Darren has pocket Queens you’re a 9:1 underdog. If he has Aces or Kings you’re about 
a 6:1 underdog. 
 
So what in the world are you doing limping in and calling a pre-flop raise? 
 
You’re just giving your money away. 
 
OK, back to our example. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Now guess who has to act FIRST? 
 
 
 
 
- 46 - 
You’ve just hit top pair and you’re first to act. Now what do you do? Your Queens aren’t 
looking that spectacular because you have no clue about what Darren has. Being in an 
early position AFTER the flop is another reason why under the gun positioning is so 
difficult to play. 
 
So let’s say you decide to check because Darren looks like he’s ready to fire again. He 
bets $15, just like you expected. 
 
Now what? You’ve got $10 in the pot with top pair, so $15 doesn’t seem like THAT much. 
So you call… and the nightmare continues. In short, you end up becoming pot-
committed and call Darren all the way down the river until he shows his A-Q and steals 
a ton of your chips. 
 
And that is the perfect example of how players get in trouble from first position before 
the flop. They try to limp-in with a mediocre hand. And nine times out of ten you’re just 
not going to get away with this. Someone is going to raise you, someone’s going to have a 
better hand, and there’s just no reason to get involved… 
 
The key is to only play PREMIUM HANDS when under the gun. I usually play hands 
like A-A, K-K, Q-Q, J-J, X-X, 9-9, A-K, A-Q, K-Q and small wired pairs on occasion. 
 
For some of these hands I will just limp-in. For others I will come out firing. The general 
rule is this: 
 
If you’re sitting at a TIGHT table and you get a premium hand under the gun, make a 
RAISE. If you’re sitting at an AGGRESSIVE table and you get a premium hand under 
the gun, LIMP-IN. 
 
At an aggressive table someone else is going to make the pre-flop raise for you, which 
means you’ll get the opportunity to come back over the top of your opponent and create 
heads-up action for more chips. 
 
At a tight table, you have to make the raise because you don’t want everyone limping-in 
and seeing a cheap flop. If you let everyone see a cheap flop you’re going to get run down 
by someone playing their scraps. There’s just no reason to let this happen. 
 
OK, so those are the general guidelines for playing in first position under the gun. If 
you’re one of those players who’s really in love with suited-connectors, you may want to 
play those the same way you’d play a small wired pair. But I wouldn’t necessarily 
recommend it unless you’re confident that you can limp-in or see the flop without 
risking too many chips. 
 
 
 
 
- 47 - 
Remember, preventing yourself from LOSING big hands is often times MORE 
IMPORTANT than learning how to WIN big hands. First position before the flop is a 
position that makes you very vulnerable to LOSING big hands. So be careful. 
 
 
 
 
- 48 - 
 
FIRST POSITION AFTER THE FLOP 
 
Being first to act after the flop means that you’re in the small blind. After the flop hits, 
you must act FIRST before everyone else.  
 
This position is tricky to play. 
 
Why? 
 
Because you’re not sure of what anyone else at the table has… or if the flop helped them 
or hurt them. You don’t know whether to bet or check… regardless of whether you 
flopped a monster or a mediocre second pair. Let’s go over some examples… 
 
You’re in the small blind and look at your cards. You’ve got: 
 
 
 
 
Almost everyone at the table limps-in and the action is to you with your small pocket 
pair. You’re not exactly THRILLED with your positioning… or your hand… so you just 
limp-in and hope to spike a three on the flop. 
 
The big blind checks the flop comes out: 
 
 
 
 
 
Nice. You’ve just flopped a big hand… and there aren’t any flush or straight draws on the 
board. But now what? Should you come out firing? 
 
 
 
- 49 - 
 
In this situation, probably not. Here you need to check. There are five players behind 
you that have a chance to act. Chances are at least ONE of those opponents will do the 
raising for you. There’s no reason to make a bet being first to act. 
 
After one of your opponents makes a bet, you can really do no wrong. You may decide to 
check again after the turn or maybe bet in hopes of getting re-raised. Either way you’re 
going to make some money on the hand. 
 
The KEY is checking after the flop with so many players in the hand. Let your 
OPPONENTS start the betting, and then take control of the action on the turn or river 
cards. 
 
Let’s look at another example.  
 
You’re in the small blind and you’re dealt: 
 
 
 
 
The action goes around the table and Josh comes out with a pre-flop raise of $5 and he’s 
fourth to act. One other player calls and the action is to you with your suited KJ. 
 
You’ve got $1 in the pot and you like your hand, so you decide to call the bet from Josh 
by throwing $6 more into the pot (calling the $1 blind plus Josh’s $5 raise). 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
What do you do? Do you check again, like in the previous example? 
 
No. This time you didn’t flop a monster. You flopped top pair, but you’re not TOO 
confident due to Josh’s pre-flop raise. He could easily have you beat right now. 
 
 
 
 
- 50 - 
So you have to find out where you’re at in the hand… so you throw out a bet. 
 
You don’t want to CHECK and then have Josh fire another bet with a hand like pocket 
10’s or J’s. And you know he WILL fire a bet if you just check to him… regardless of 
whether or not the flop helped him. And that’s why you need to come out betting here…  
 
So let’s say Josh comes right back over the top of your bet with a raise.  
 
Now you have to put him on a hand like A-K, which means you’re in big trouble. So you 
should probably just muck the hand with a minimum loss. 
 
Your bet after the flop is essentially a FEELER BET (we’ll discuss feeler bets in further 
detail later in the book) to find out where you’re at. 
 
If Josh had simply CALLED your bet on the flop, you’ve probably got the best hand. You 
can continue betting on the turn and river, assuming the scary Ace doesn’t hit. 
 
Remember… the only way to find out where you’re at in a hand is through betting. And 
that’s why I would do it in a situation like this. 
 
In general, that’s how I like to play the small blind. If I catch a monster I’ll check and let 
others lead the betting. If I hit top pair or some type of draw I’ll throw out a feeler bet.  
 
Play the small blind position this way. Not only will it keep you out of trouble but you’ll 
also rake pots you’d normally miss out on. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 51 - 
 
LATE POSITIONING 
 
Late positioning is your PREFERRED positioning at the table. Late positioning is NOT 
just the button… it also includes the seats to the right of the button. 
 
If you were at an 8-man or 10-man table, the three seats to the right of the button would 
be considered “late positioning”. It is from these seats that you should win a majority of 
your pots. 
 
The obvious reason, of course, is that you get to see what your opponents do BEFORE 
you have to act. But obviously, there’s still the possibility that someone in a LATER 
position (like the button) will enter a pot. 
 
That’s why I like to use a move called “stealing the button”. 
 
Stealing the button is quite powerful. What it boils down to is that acting LAST in a 
round of betting is always preferred. So when you’re in a late position (but not on the 
button), you can force out the later positions pre-flop in an attempt to be last to act after 
the flop… 
 
Here’s what I mean: 
 
Let’s say you’re at a 10-man $1-2 no limit table and you look down to see… 
 
 
 
 
You’re sitting two seats to the right of the dealer. 
 
A couple of guys limp-in by calling the big blind, but you definitely sense weakness. The 
action is to you. 
 
 
 
 
- 52 - 
This is a situation where I might play aggressively. It’s not a good starting hand… and I 
certainly wouldn’t play it from an early position. But here’s a chance to “steal the 
button” and take down a pot by playing the positioning wisely. 
 
So you make it $8 to play. Not a huge bet, but just large enough to get one or two callers 
and build the pot up.  
 
Brad and Josh, who are to your left, both muck their hands. 
 
Perfect. 
 
That’s exactly what you wanted. Because now you’re last to act post-flop… which is the 
equivalent to being on the button. You get to see what your opponents do first, and 
you’ve got control of the action since you made the pre-flop raise. 
 
Greg, who’s in the big blind, is the only player to call your pre-flop raise. It’s just you and 
him, heads-up. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Not exactly what you’d hoped for. 
 
You’ve got nothing… no pair, no draw…  
 
But like I said, you’ve played your positioning in a way that enables you to still take this 
pot down, even though you don’t have good cards. 
 
Here’s why: 
 
Because Greg has to act FIRST. You can get a full read on him by seeing what he does. If 
he comes out firing, you should lay the hand down. 
 
But that’s probably not what is going to happen. Greg likely didn’t hit anything either. 
Here’s how the hand plays out… 
 
 
 
 
- 53 - 
Greg looks down at his cards. He’s holding pocket sevens. He liked his sevens before the 
flop, but now that there are two over-cards on the board, he’s not exactly confident. 
 
You made the pre-flop raise, so Greg has to give you some respect here. There’s a good 
chance you have the Ace. So he basically gives up on the hand…  
 
He checks. 
 
You give it a small moment of hesitation and then come out firing. Nothing crazy, of 
course… just a reasonable bet in hopes of dragging the pot. 
 
“Sixteen dollars”, you say, doubling your pre-flop raise. 
 
Greg immediately throws his cards in the muck without a second thought. 
 
You toss yours in too… taking down a decent pot. 
 
And it was all because you played your position aggressively and “stole the button” with 
your pre-flop raise. 
 
Now of course, you can’t ALWAYS make pre-flop raises in late positioning… but it needs 
to be a part of your game plan. I like to do it with hidden hands like suited-connectors 
and semi-connectors… along with any REAL hands (like pairs or face cards). 
 
If the players who act first seem to have hit on the flop, I’ll muck my hand. Don’t be 
stubborn and try to bluff for no reason. If you sense weakness, make a move. If you 
sense strength, get out. It’s as simple as that… 
 
Here’s a three-step recap: 
 
1. Look for weakness… whether it’s with a couple of your opponents just limping-in or 
everyone folding to you. 
 
2. Raise pre-flop with hidden hands like suited-connectors, semi-connectors, and low 
pocket pairs. (Of course, you can raise with “real” hands too—like pocket Queens—
but in those cases you’ve got a great hand and positioning isn’t as important.) 
 
3. If your opponents checks to you on the flop, fire away… even if you hit nothing. If 
you get called and sense strength, back off. 
 
 
 
 
- 54 - 
This simple three-step process will help you maximize your winnings based on your 
positioning… and will also help you get more action with your monster hands when you 
get them. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 55 - 
 
ON THE BUTTON 
 
A majority of the hands you’ll win over the course of a poker game should come when 
the button is sitting directly in front of you. 
 
Having the button means that you’re the DEALER… which is the best position at the 
table. 
 
Any strong poker player will use this button to his advantage and LEVERAGE the power 
of being dealer with a variety of hands.  
 
Why is the button so important? 
 
Well, as the dealer, you get to see what your opponents do after the flop… before you 
must act. And that’s why you should be AGGRESSIVE in this position, even with 
mediocre starting hands. 
 
For example, let’s say you’re at an 8-man no limit game and you’re dealt: 
 
 
 
 
The blinds are 100-200 in this no limit game and three of your opponents limp-in by 
calling the blind. The action is to you and your suited-connector. 
 
This is where you can take advantage of your positioning at the table… and take control 
of the betting. 
 
You do this by making a pre-flop RAISE. 
 
“Make it 1000 to play”, you say in a demanding voice… as if you were sitting on a 
monster or something. 
 
 
 
- 56 - 
 
The REASON you make the raise is because you’ve got the button and you get to see 
what your opponents do after the flop before you act. This gives you a HUGE advantage 
that you don’t have at any other position at the table. 
 
Even if you MISS the flop by hitting nothing, you’re still in a good position to take down 
the pot. 
 
Josh calls your bet… and the other opponents fold. 
 
So now you’re in control of the hand and the betting. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
You’ve just flopped an open-ended straight draw. And you get to see what Josh does 
because he acts first. 
 
He checks. 
 
And THAT is exactly why the button is so powerful. 
 
You made the raise before the flop so Josh has to put you on a strong hand like a large 
wired pair. If he doesn’t hit on the flop, he is likely to check because he anticipates 
another bet from you. 
 
So what do you do? 
 
You fire AGAIN, right? Even if you DIDN’T hit the straight draw another bet is a good 
idea. Because more often than not it’s gong to result in you winning the pot… because 
the odds are Josh didn’t hit anything on the board either, especially since he checked. 
 
However, in our example you did get the draw (which means you have lots of outs)… so 
you can represent the Ace and force Josh to fold if he didn’t get anything. You made the 
pre-flop raise… so if you come out firing here Josh will probably put you on the Ace. 
 
So you make another bet. 
 
 
 
- 57 - 
 
“2000”, you say as you push in a large stack of red chips. 
 
So you’re essentially on a semi-bluff right now because you’ve got nothing but a draw. 
You can hit a five or a ten on either the turn or river, which will complete your straight. 
 
You’d LIKE to take the pot down now… but if Josh calls you’re still in good shape. 
 
Sure enough, he calls. 
 
OK, so now we’re fairly certain that Josh has the Ace. After all… he DID call your pre-
flop raise, so you’ve got to put him on something decent. When he calls your bet on the 
flop, you can put him on Ace-something. 
 
The turn card comes: 
 
 
 
This is no help to you. 
 
Josh is first to act again… 
 
“I check”, he says as he pounds his fist on the table. 
 
This is ANOTHER key advantage to playing the button aggressively. You KNOW that 
Josh is probably sitting on a hand like A10 or AJ and is checking to you because he feels 
as though you’re going to fire again. 
 
So essentially, you get to see a free card after he checks… which only happens because 
you took control of the betting with your aggressive pre-flop raise. 
 
Now what? Should you bet again, even though you didn’t hit on the turn? 
 
NO WAY. Josh checked to you… so you’re going to use that opportunity to see a free 
card. 
 
You don’t bet again because you know that Josh has the Ace… and maybe the Jack. And 
you know he’ll call no matter what you bet on the turn. You can’t afford to bet again 
 
 
 
- 58 - 
because the odds of hitting your straight aren’t likely and you won’t be able to buy the 
pot after the river if you miss. 
 
You check, and the river comes: 
 
 
 
Bingo. You’ve completed your straight. 
 
Josh is first to act again and this time he comes out firing. Of course, after your little 
check on the turn he feels like he’s got the best hand. 
 
“Make it 1000”, he says. 
 
And you just come back over the top and go all-in. You know he’ll call, considering he’s 
pot-committed and only has about 2000 in chips left anyway. 
 
Josh calls your all-in bet with no hesitation, and throws over his AJ… expecting to win 
the hand. 
 
You throw over your nut straight and win the huge pot. All because you played the 
button aggressively… 
 
Now, I know what you’re thinking. You’re thinking, “OK, you raked a huge pot, but you 
did it because you hit the straight on the river… not because of your aggressive play.” 
 
And sure, a little luck does help.  
 
But think about it: If you hadn’t played the hand aggressively from the very start, you 
would have never even SEEN the river card…  
 
Josh would have come out firing on the flop when he hit his Aces. You wouldn’t 
probably called the bet after the flop, simply because of your open-ended straight draw. 
 
But when you missed on the turn, Josh would have come out firing AGAIN with an even 
LARGER bet… and you wouldn’t have been able to see the free river card like you did in 
the example. His bet after the turn would have been too large for you to call with just an 
open-ended straight draw with one card to go. 
 
 
 
- 59 - 
 
Instead, the hand played out differently (to your advantage) because you played the 
button aggressively from the start.  
 
Besides, even though you got lucky to hit your straight, Josh got lucky to hit his top pair. 
If the flop had come out with a King instead of an Ace and you still played it aggressively, 
you would have probably won the hand right there.  
 
Or if Josh had KJ instead of AJ… you would have won by playing aggressively. 
 
You see, playing the button this way gives you control of the betting, lets you see free 
cards, and gives you a read on the other players at the table. And that’s why… even with 
mediocre hands… many of the great players will raise from this position. 
 
Follow this strategy and you’ll win more pots… and bigger pots… every Texas Holdem 
game you play. 
 
 
 
 
- 60 - 
 
WATCH THE GUN 
 
If you’re playing in a good poker game, your opponents are going to be smart and 
understand their table positioning. They’re going to know when to make a raise on the 
button, when to limp-in with early positioning, etc. That’s why YOU must be very aware 
of one position in particular: UNDER THE GUN. 
 
When you’re under the gun, it means you’re first to act before the flop. You’ve got to 
make a decision whether to call, raise, or fold before ANYONE ELSE has had a chance to 
act. Heck, usually everyone hasn’t even picked up their two down-cards yet and the 
action is to you. 
 
Under the gun is a tough position. And that’s why you should only play premium hands 
from the position… a fact that smart players know.  
 
Even though most players know to be careful when under the gun, many fail to pay 
attention to the position at any other time. You MUST be careful any time a smart 
opponent limps-in… or worse, raises… while under the gun. 
 
Here’s a situation that played out recently where my buddy John didn’t pay attention go 
his opponent under the gun… 
 
We were playing our regular $1-2 no limit cash game and John had good table 
positioning, just to the right of the button. Brett and Aaron both limped in and the 
action was to John. 
 
He slowly picked up his two down cards and saw: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 61 - 
Like many other players would do with this hand, John announced a raise… making it 
$15 to play. 
 
The action went back around to Aaron, who had limped-in while under the gun. Aaron 
didn’t even flinch… and immediately made it $30 to play, doubling John’s pre-flop raise. 
 
This is where John should have seen the red flag up and waving. Aaron is a smart and 
somewhat tight player who limped-in under the gun. He’s only going to play big hands 
from this position… like most smart players would. 
 
You don’t limp-in with a mediocre hand under the gun… because you know someone 
behind you is going to make a raise and you’re going to be stuck in early position after 
the flop. 
 
If John had been “watching the gun”, he would have wisely just called with his pocket 
nines, rather than making a raise. 
 
So anyway… John calls, thinking he might still have the best hand. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
This is good flop for John, because he has a pair that’s higher than anything on the 
board. But without hesitation, Aaron throws out a $50 bet. 
 
John obviously should have anticipated this… I mean, Aaron isn’t going to re-raise 
before the flop only to check after the flop. Of course, John calls the bet since nothing on 
the board is higher than his nines. 
 
The hand plays out this way and John ends up losing a huge chunk of his stack to 
Aaron’s pocket Kings… a hand John should have anticipated from the get-go. 
 
The moral of the story is to always watch the player under the gun… every single hand. 
Take mental notes over the course of the game… and find out who plays only premium 
hands under the gun and who’s too dumb to know anything about table positioning. 
 
This type of information is extremely helpful in getting a read on your opponents… 
which will lead to more winnings every night. 
 
 
 
 
- 62 - 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 12: MIX IT UP 
CHAPTER 13: FEELER BETS 
CHAPTER 14: CHANGING GEARS 
CHAPTER 15: STEALING THE BLINDS 
CHAPTER 16: PLAY AGGRESSIVELY 
CHAPTER 17: REPRESENT THE FLOP 
CHAPTER 18: POT-COMMITTED 
CHAPTER 19: SLOW PLAYING 
CHAPTER 20: WHEN SLOW PLAYING BACKFIRES 
CHAPTER 21: CHECK RAISE 
CHAPTER 22: HEADS-UP PLAY  
 
 
 
- 63 - 
 
MIX IT UP 
 
Great poker players understand the importance of MIXING UP THEIR BETS AND 
RAISES. 
 
It’s so simple… yet so many players fail on this critical point. 
 
As you’ve heard me talk about, one of the keys to winning is to identify the betting 
patterns of your opponents. 
 
Of course, your opponents (the smart ones) will often try to identify YOUR betting 
patterns… 
 
So don’t let them! 
 
Be sure to CONSTANTLY mix up your bets, raises, and even BETTING BEHAVIOR for 
different starting hands. 
 
Don’t play the same starting hand the same way twice. Always change it up. 
 
This actually will give you LEVERAGE to “trick” your opponents also. For example… 
let’s say you raise $65 pre-flop with 7-2 offsuit after sensing weakness at the table. 
 
Everyone folds. You flip over your cards and jokingly say, “C’mon guys!”. 
 
Another hour passes and you pick up pocket Kings on the button. You make a raise of 
$65 pre-flop. One of your opponents has K-J and REMEMBERS that you made the 
same pre-flop raise on a TOTAL BLUFF last time. 
 
So he decides to come over the top of you for an all-in bet. And you promptly take all his 
money. 
 
These types of situations won’t happen too often, of course, but when they do they are 
VERY SWEET! 
 
 
 
 
- 64 - 
If you find yourself totally unable to get out of the habit of betting patterns, try this 
sneaky little trick: 
 
Let’s say everyone starts with 1000 in chips. The normal bets and raises are in multiples 
of five or ten, of course. 
 
Well, as part of your “exercise” in learning how to mix your game up, you make bets and 
raises ONLY with odd numbers. 
 
For instance, instead of raising 40 before the flop, you raise 43 or maybe 38. Instead of a 
200 chip bet, you go for 199. And so on. 
 
Now listen… THIS IS ANNOYING AS HELL. I’m serious… It’s one of the most annoying 
things ever. BUT, it’s a very useful way to get used to mixing up your betting strategy. 
 
The goal is to keep your opponents guessing at what you have… and always betting 
weird amounts certainly achieves this objective. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
- 65 - 
 
FEELER BETS 
 
Betting is THE most important aspect of Texas Holdem poker. If you’re one of those 
guys who likes to check, check, check or call, call, call then you’re NEVER going to win 
consistently… Period. 
 
Why is betting so important? 
 
It’s simple. Betting always lets you know WHERE YOU STAND in the hand. If you never 
bet, you never know what your opponents are holding. 
 
Let’s say you’re on the button in a no limit cash game and you get dealt: 
 
 
 
 
A few players limp-in and the action is to you with your medium wired pair. Instead of 
limping-in like your opponents, however, you throw out a pre-flop raise… which is 
actually a FEELER BET. 
 
Feeler bets are crucial for your winning strategy, so listen up closely… A feeler bet is 
simply a bet made to find out where you stand in the hand. Something to “feel” it out. 
 
“Make it 1500 to play”, you say. (The blinds are 100 and 200.) 
 
You make this bet because you have good positioning and you want to know WHERE 
exactly you stand in the hand. For all you know, Brad might have limped-in first to act 
with pocket Aces. Who knows? 
 
You need to know. And the only way to know is to throw out a small feeler bet. 
 
 
 
 
- 66 - 
Then… if Brad or any of the other two opponents that limped-in are holding MONSTER 
HANDS, they’re going to come back over the top of you with a  re-raise, which is fine. If 
they come back over you with an amount you’re not willing to pay, you can muck your 
nines and walk away with a minimized loss.  
 
You found out where you stood, and that wouldn’t have happened without your pre-flop 
raise. 
 
Let’s say instead you simply LIMPED-IN (what you DON’T want to do) just like your 
three opponents and the flop comes out: 
 
 
 
 
 
A good flop for you, right? 
 
Well, you’re not quite sure… because Brad here comes out firing first to act with a 2000 
bet… and you have NO CLUE what to put him on. 
 
Did he limp-in first to act with a monster like Aces? Or is he holding a hand like A-8, 
which would give him top pair? Or perhaps he flopped a set? 
 
You don’t know. 
 
Because you didn’t throw out a feeler bet. 
 
But let’s just say you DID listen to me and threw out a feeler bet… And he called. Now 
what? 
 
Well, you know he has some type of hand BEFORE the flop. And here’s how the action 
plays out… 
 
You make your feeler bet, and Brad and Josh both call. Rodney mucks his cards. 
 
So you’ve gotten rid of one of the crap hands and you know you’ve PROBABLY got the 
best hand right now. And as I’ve said before… you WOULD NOT have known that right 
now had you just limped-in. 
 
The flop hits (new example): 
 
 
 
- 67 - 
 
 
 
 
 
Both Brad and Josh check to you. This is yet another advantage to your pre-flop raise 
because it bought you a free card. 
 
So what should you do here? Make another bet even though there’s an over card on the 
board that Brad or Josh could easily be holding? 
 
The answer is yes. 
 
You have to bet. You need to throw out another bet as if the King didn’t scare you in the 
least. And once again, this is a feeler bet. It lets you know where you’re at AFTER the 
flop. 
 
The bet does NOT have to be large… or anything that’s going to get you into trouble or 
make you pot-committed. You simply throw out this bet to know where you stand… and 
hopefully Brad and Josh will just muck their cards here. 
 
“2000” is what you say as you splash the pot with a stack of white chips. 
 
Brad looks down a second time at his cards… thinks for a moment… then mucks them. 
Josh is next to act and he calls your bet with little hesitation. 
 
Now you’ve got a feel as to where you’re at. Josh is probably holding the King and has 
you beat right now. However, he hasn’t made a move on you with a raise, so he probably 
has a weak kicker. If this is the case, he’s likely to check to you again on the turn or 
river…  
 
Once again, these feeler bets are CRUCIAL to winning poker matches. You can put Josh 
on a pair of Kings with a low kicker… all because of two small feeler bets. 
 
The hand continues… the turn card comes: 
 
 
 
 
- 68 - 
 
 
YES. 
 
This is a great card for you… because it’s a card you can represent. You’re fairly certain 
that Josh has a King with no kicker, and now you’re confident you can probably bet him 
out and steal this pot. 
 
Josh checks to you again on the turn… just like you expected. And you can tell he’s not 
too happy about the Ace hitting the board. 
 
Since you know where you stand at this point, a feeler bet is NOT necessary here. 
Remember… feeler bets are made in order to “feel” where you’re at in the hand. 
 
So then you check the Ace right behind Josh… maybe pretending as if you’ve hit and 
you’re SLOW PLAYING. 
 
The river comes: 
 
 
 
You know that this is no help to Josh… and he checks to you for a third time. 
 
Now there’s no doubt you can steal this pot with your pair of nines. If Josh were holding 
a big hand there’s no way he would’ve checked to you AGAIN on the river. He checks 
because you’ve been rather aggressive and he’s afraid you may have the best hand. 
 
So now you want to throw out a bet big enough for force Josh into folding his King with 
no kicker. 
 
“7500”, you say as you push in a large stack of chips…  
 
Josh mucks his two down cards before your chips are even released from your hand.  
 
 
 
- 69 - 
 
And you take down (or STEAL) a good sized pot. 
 
And how did you win? Well, your victory was because of your two FEELER BETS. They 
gave you a feel for the game, for the hand, and for the player you were up against.  
 
There’s just no way to put an opponent on a hand if you’re checking all the time. 
 
That’s how WEAK players play. They check, check, and check again… never getting a 
good idea about what their opponents are holding. 
 
So take control of the action and throw out feeler bets… and find out where you stand. If 
you had never bet and let Josh take control of the betting, you would have never known 
what he had and HE would have gotten the pot. 
 
But instead, YOU dictated the action, YOU got a read on Josh, and YOU sensed enough 
weakness that you were able to make a move and win it… 
 
So the moral of the story is this: Use feeler bets. And use them often. They don’t need to 
be BIG, they just need to help you find out where you stand in a hand and help you 
calculate your next move. Trust me… this technique alone can REALLY help you win a 
lot more pots every night you play. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
- 70 - 
 
CHANGING GEARS 
 
If you plan on becoming a great poker player, it’s important that you CHANGE GEARS… 
 
Changing gears prevents your style of play from becoming PREDICTABLE… and we all 
know that predictability is your enemy. 
 
One minute you should be cruising along in first gear… folding and watching everyone 
else play. And then the next minute you should kick into fifth gear and bring your game 
to a different level.  
 
Let me give you some examples. 
 
It’s 8 P.M. and you sit down at your local cash game… and the very first hand you look at 
is a 9-8 of spades while you’re just to the right of the button. 
 
A few players limp-in and the action is to you.  
 
“Make it $25 to play,” is what you say… throwing out five red chips. 
 
You decided that you’re going to start this game in FIFTH gear… which is your 
aggressive gear. You do this because you want to SET THE TONE of the game and 
establish your table presence. This will also set you up for action later in the game when 
you get some real hands… like Cowboys or American Airlines. 
 
Then… once the table gets used to your fifth gear, you shift all the way back down to first 
and only play premium hands. And you’ll get ACTION. 
 
So anyway… you continue your aggressive play for the first hour or so of the game. You 
make raises with a wide variety of hands like J-10, 10-9, 5-3, and so on. And your 
opponents have NO CLUE as to what you’re making raises with. 
 
They’re confused as hell, which puts you in a DOMINATING position. They see you as 
an aggressive, manic-like player who continues to push the action. And you’ve also 
established yourself as table leader… even though you aren’t necessarily CHIP leader. 
 
 
 
- 71 - 
 
So you began the night with $200 in chips and now it’s 9 P.M. You’ve played for an hour 
and now you’ve got $180 in chips. Do you care? No!  
 
That one hour was for the purpose of “paying your dues”… because you’ve set yourself 
up for the rest of the night. Now you’re going to get paid off when you finally DO catch a 
real hand. Now it’s just a matter of being patient. 
 
So you decide to shift gears again… and drop into third gear. You’ll still make the 
occasional raise with 9-8 suited, and you’ll still bluff from time to time. But ONLY when 
you sense weakness and have good positioning. 
 
What you’re really doing is waiting on that big hand like Queens, Kings, or Aces. When 
that happens, you get paid. 
 
Finally, at 9:45 P.M. you get dealt Cowboys when you’re third to act before the flop. You 
decide to make a large pre-flop raise that’s likely to create heads-up action.  
 
After all, you don’t want four guys seeing a flop when you’ve got Kings… you’re 
practically guaranteed to get run down. 
 
You throw out a raise… say $50. This is an aggressive raise at this table… but you’ve 
established yourself as an aggressive player. Hey, last time you made it $50 to play you 
were holding 10-8 suited! (Of course, that was a different story… because you were on 
the button and you sensed weakness when everyone limped-in last time.  You KNEW 
everyone was going to fold last time… and that’s why you SHOWED your cards too. It 
was all about setting up for THIS hand.) 
 
So anyway… Brad, the guy on the button, is the only one who calls. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
And to make a long story short, you end up doubling up on poor little Brad, who had A-
Q. 
 
So anyway… now it’s 10 P.M. and you decide to shift down to first gear. This is your 
TIGHT PLAYER gear. You’ve got $475 in chips and you just want to chill out and only 
play premium hands. 
 
 
 
- 72 - 
 
And once again, you’ll get paid off if you’re lucky enough to catch another big hand while 
playing in first gear. Because remember… your OPPONENTS don’t know you’re in first 
gear. For all they know you’re still in fifth. 
 
Personally, I usually use first gear as a time to regroup and think about my game plan. I 
spend this time attentively studying my opponents for tells and betting patterns. 
 
So an hour goes by and you’ve basically been unheard from. Your opponents have 
practically forgotten you’re even sitting at the table! You’re on the button and you get 
dealt: 
 
 
 
 
It’s time to let your opponents that you’re still in the game… still ready to play.  
 
Josh and Rodney both limp-in and the action is to you.  
 
“Make it $30 to play”, you say… not really caring if your opponents call or fold. If they 
call, you’ve got positioning on them. If they fold you can rake in the blinds… which add 
up over the course of the night. 
 
Josh folds, Rodney folds. They haven’t heard from you in awhile and are therefore a 
little scared that you might be sitting on a big hand. 
 
As you rake in the blinds, you throw over your 5-3 face up on the table and say, “Hey 
c’mon guys… give me some action here… I know you’ve got my five high beat!” 
 
And they both smile and shake their heads. They know you’re just messing with them… 
and they’re used to it by now. They’ve seen this behavior before. 
 
So you’re back in fifth gear and you start playing aggressively again. You push the action 
for the next hour or so and hope to catch some favorable flops. If and when that happens, 
your chip lead increases. 
 
The night rolls along and you continue to switch gears… from first to fifth, third to first, 
fifth to first, and so on.  
 
 
 
 
- 73 - 
This style of play keeps your opponents on their toes and continually guessing… never 
quite able to put you on a hand. 
 
This is what strong poker playing is all about. You’ve got to harness your ability to 
completely change gears… back and forth and back and forth throughout the night. If 
you stay in one gear for too long you’ll never win on a consistent basis.  
 
 
 
 
- 74 - 
 
STEALING THE BLINDS 
 
If you’re like most card players, when you sit down at a no limit cash game you plan on 
staying awhile. When I play, I usually figure being at the card table around eight hours… 
sometimes more. And man does that time fly. 
 
At the end of the night (or early in the morning), a good chunk of my chips is usually 
from stealing the blinds and occasional pot. You’d be amazed at how quickly these pots 
will add up over the course of a night. 
 
Let’s say you’re playing a $1-2 no limit game and you ONLY steal the small and big blind 
three times per hour for an eight hour shift. 
 
That comes out to $72 in your pocket at the end of the night. And more often than not, 
you’ll be stealing more than just the small and big blinds… and I’m guessing you may be 
playing in higher stakes games (if not, don’t worry… you’ll get there soon). 
 
The point is, you can see how easily these small pots add up… and their presence can 
make your night successful. 
 
These numbers are similar for tournament play too. In fact, it’s MORE important in 
tournaments to steal blinds because they’re constantly being raised. That’s why blind 
stealing becomes a fundamental part of the game. 
 
It’s something you HAVE to do… just to stay in the game. 
 
But here’s the thing: You can’t just steal the blinds whenever you feel like it. You have to 
pick and choose your spots to attack. And you do this based on two main criteria: 
 
1. When you sense weakness in your opponents. 
 
2. When you have good table positioning. 
 
Here’s an example of what I mean… 
 
 
 
 
- 75 - 
Let’s say you’re playing a $1-2 no limit cash game and you get dealt: 
 
 
 
 
You’re on the button. 
 
John, Aaron, and Shelly all limp-in by calling the $2 big blind. And they ONLY limp-in, 
which catches your attention. You know that these players are normally fairly aggressive 
and will usually raise pre-flop with a variety of hands. So you’re confident that this is an 
occasion where you can steal the blinds. 
 
“$20 to play,” you say as you splash the pot with some chips. 
 
You make this bet because you feel like all three of your opponents will fold… and you’ll 
get the $5 in blinds. It’s not a lot of money… and your odds are terrible considering 
you’re risking $20, but trust me… once you get to know your opponents this is 
something that you REALLY need to do to make more money playing poker. Stealing $5 
an hour for 8 hours at this game would equal $40… and for a $1-2 no limit cash game, 
that’s a sizeable amount. 
 
You’re pretty sure none of your opponents have a $20 hand. If they DID, they would 
have made a pre-flop raise. The only person you’re really worried about is John because 
he limped-in while under the gun. A smart player knows better than to limp-in under 
the gun at an 8-man table.  
 
But then again… John isn’t a very smart player. 
 
Even if you DO get a caller or two, you’re in OK shape. You’ve got good positioning… 
you’ve got control of the betting… and J-9 suited it the type of hand that can bust 
opponents because if you hit they DEFINITELY won’t put you on it. 
 
So a caller wouldn’t be THAT bad… and if everyone folds (what you’re hoping for) you 
get the ever-important $5 in blinds. 
 
Just as you expect… all three of your opponents fold and you rake in the $5. You muck 
your two down cards and don’t show them. I’ll usually say something silly like, “C’mon 
guys… I had Big Slick.” 
 
 
 
 
- 76 - 
So the night goes on like this… and from time to time you steal the blinds when you’re in 
good position and sense weakness. You get a total of ten pots for $50 in your pocket at 
the end of the game. That’s $50 you wouldn’t have seen had you not been such a thief. 
 
Remember… good positioning and sensing weakness are the keys. If you don’t know if 
your opponents are weak, work on getting a better read on them and tracking their 
betting patterns more closely. 
 
 
 
- 77 - 
 
PLAY AGGRESSIVELY 
 
I would have to say that the main reason I’m a strong player is because of my 
AGGRESSIVE STYLE. I like to push the action and raise pots with a wide variety of 
hands. And it’s not only me… just look around. When’s the last time you ran into a really 
great card player who always played TIGHT? 
 
The truth is, aggressive poker players rule the game. And it’s going to stay that way… 
tight players just don’t win in the long run. Sure, on occasion they’re going to have a 
good night. But that usually happens when their Aces run into someone’s Kings or when 
they catch a player making some dumb mistake. 
 
Other than that, tight players just don’t get action at the table. Why would they? No one 
wants to put money into a pot after Tight Tim (who hasn’t made a raise in three hours) 
raises before the flop. I sure don’t. 
 
If you’re aggressive, and SMART about being aggressive, you can come out ahead in 
Texas Holdem. 
 
Here’s an example of an average night of cards for me… 
 
I’ll cruise over to the St. Louis river boats and pick a spot where I’ve never played 
before… or maybe where I haven’t played in a long time. 
 
When I look around, I don’t see anyone familiar. So this isn’t going to be like the home 
games I play. These guys don’t know I play aggressively and throw out lots of feeler bets. 
They’re probably going to see me as a tight new player who’s here to drop a good chunk 
of money. 
 
I buy-in for $400 and sit down… hoping to at least double my buy-in before the end of 
the night. I see absolutely NOTHING for the first hour. The best hand I see is an A-3 off-
suit when first to act… and I have absolutely no intentions of playing that. 
 
After about an hour and a half of playing nothing, I’m on the button and I get dealt: 
 
 
 
 
- 78 - 
 
 
 
This is actually one of my favorite hands. I’ll often throw out a pre-flop raise with this 
hand… just to keep my opponents on their toes. Plus… for some reason I always seem to 
get lucky and hit with this hand. Yes, I know it’s superstition, but hey… it works for me. 
 
So anyway… it’s time that I showed these guys what kind of player I am. 
 
“Make it $35 to play”, I say with confidence. 
 
I could really care less about how this hand plays out. I’m making this bet because I 
want to make a statement and set myself for the rest of the game. 
 
Let’s look at the possible outcomes: 
 
1. Everyone folds. This is what I expect to happen. After all, I haven’t made a pre-flop 
raise yet. My opponents are probably putting me on Aces or Kings. If they FOLD, I’m 
going to throw over my monster 5-3 and establish myself as an aggressive (and 
slightly crazy) player… which will pay off later. 
 
2. I get caught on a bluff. This will also set me up for action for the rest of the night. The 
only thing is, I want to make sure I don’t lose TOO much money. I’m thinking of this 
situation as an investment for the future. 
 
3. I get lucky and hit something on the flop. If I can take down a pot with my 5-3 and 
show it at the same time, then I’ll really look like a stud… and once again, establish 
my table presence. 
 
So as you can see, I’m making this bet to set myself up as the game progresses. I 
absolutely DON’T want my opponents thinking I’m a tight player. If they do, I’m not 
going to get any action when I finally do hit a big hand. 
 
An older man sitting directly across from me at the table is the only one who calls my 
pre-flop raise. I immediately put him on A-K or A-Q. I know that he thinks I’m fairly 
tight based on the last hour or so… so he’d only call with a big hand like A-K. 
 
But anyway… I’ve got good positioning and I get to see what he does after the flop before 
it’s my turn. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
- 79 - 
 
 
 
  
 
My opponent checks. 
 
Now the action is to me with my open-ended straight draw. 
 
“$50 to play”, I say. This is a semi-bluff. It’s not a BAD bet to make when on an open-
ended straight draw like this. And like I said before, my intentions here are to establish a 
table image and advertise. 
 
I’m fairly confident that my opponent will fold. If he calls I’m in decent shape because 
I’ve taken control of the betting and will get to see one more free card. And I have lots of 
outs. 
 
My opponent looks down a second time and then says, “Aces are good”, as he mucks his 
cards. 
 
“No, I was on an open-ended straight draw”, I say, as I shake my head and throw over 
my 5-3 of spades for the world to see. 
 
And now I’m pretty well setup for the rest of the night. My opponents see me as an 
aggressive player that will raise with a variety of hands and push action when on a draw.  
 
The game plays on and I get action when I finally DO get big hands. Even when I flop 
monsters like trips I can come out firing and get callers. 
 
I’ve set myself up for a big night. Just by having the guts to risk some chips in order to 
establish my table image. 
 
Throughout the night I’ll still throw out a pre-flop raise once in awhile with some 
mediocre hands like 9-8, 5-4, and so on. Some pots I end up raking, and some I do not. 
But that’s not the point. The point is, I’m keeping these guys guessing with my 
aggressive style of play. They’re never able to put me on a hand… and they end up calling 
when I get monsters like pocket Aces. 
 
 
 
 
- 80 - 
Adopting an aggressive style of play is a very powerful tool in the game of no limit Texas 
Holdem. Even if I had only made that one pre-flop raise with my 5-3 and then tightened 
up afterwards, I would have set myself up for more action later. 
 
Aggressive players are the ones who win at Texas Holdem. But just be sure to be SMART 
at the same time. Use positioning to your advantage and know when to make your 
moves and when NOT to make your moves. And know when you’ve got to GET OUT of a 
hand. 
 
Keep all these things in mind and your poker skills will jump to a new level… a level 
where you’ll be able to quickly and consistently finish in the money when you play. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 81 - 
 
REPRESENT THE FLOP 
 
The rule is this: If you make a pre-flop raise, bet after the flop. Period. 
 
And that INCLUDES when you don’t hit your cards.  
 
This is a fundamental strategy to Texas Holdem. Don’t be one of those players who 
raises with Big Slick before the flop… only to check after the flop when it comes out rags. 
Players who do that are weak. 
 
The only time you shouldn’t represent the flop after a pre-flop raise… and I mean the 
ONLY time… is when you hit something like a four-of-a-kind and your opponents are 
drawing dead. In this case, you WANT them to see another card… in hopes that they 
make a pair or a draw or SOMETHING so that you can milk more money out of them. 
 
OK, so here are a few examples of WHY you should represent the flop after making a 
pre-flop raise… 
 
Let’s say you’re fourth to act before the flop and you get pocket tens. The first few 
players muck their hands and the action is to you. You decide to make a bet that’s likely 
to get just one or two callers…  
 
The blinds are 100-200 and you make it 2000 to play. 
 
The next couple guys fold and the action is to Darren, who’s on the button (which means 
he has positioning on you). He’ll get to see what you do after the flop before he has to act. 
 
You don’t really care though… because your 2000 bet has worked to perfection. You 
didn’t want two or more opponents seeing the flop with your tens… because if you let 
that happen you were likely going to get drawn out by a hand like Q-9 or K-8. But 
instead, Darren is the only caller and you’re fairly certain you have the best hand right 
now. 
 
If Darren had you beat, he would have probably re-raised you… since he’s on the button. 
So you know you have a good shot at winning this hand… 
 
 
 
- 82 - 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
You’re first to act. And of course, you’re not exactly thrilled about the two over-cards on 
the board. Darren could easily have an Ace or a Queen in his hand right now… So what 
do you do? 
 
“Make it 4000 to play”, you say with no hesitation… as you fire your chips into the pot. 
 
Only a weak player would check and show weakness in a situation like this. 
 
Remember, Darren doesn’t know what you’re holding. For all he knows, you could have 
AQ or AK.  
 
It’s CRUCIAL that you represent the flop even though you hit nothing. Because the odds 
are Darren didn’t hit anything either. 
 
If you CHECK here, Darren’s going to sense weakness and will be able to steal this pot 
right out from under you no problem. Even if he has pocket nines or something 
smaller… he can still steal the pot if you show him weakness. 
 
That’s why you have to beat him to the punch and throw out a strong bet as though the 
Ace and the Queen helped you. 
 
Now of course, you’re NOT going to win the hand every time you use this strategy. If 
Darren was holding AQ, he’s going to come right back over the top of you with a raise… 
and you’ll know to fold. 
 
But in the long run, representing the flop will definitely pay off. You’ll win about 70% of 
the pots by representing the flop when you hit absolutely nothing… and you’ll probably 
get a caller the other 30% of the time and you’ll want to back off and minimize your 
losses. Do NOT feel as though you must continue to bluff. It’s OK to give up on the hand 
and lose the chips you’ve put in the middle. 
 
Now… here’s the REAL beauty of the bet. If you play at a table long enough… or if you 
play with the same guys consistently… your opponents will begin to pick up on the fact 
 
 
 
- 83 - 
that you follow your pre-flop raises with bets after the flop. This gives you two unique 
advantages: 
 
1. Before the flop, your opponents will begin to fear you. They know that if you raise, 
they’ll have to be ready for another strong bet after the flop. 
 
2. You’ll get more action when you really DO hit on the flop and complete a hand. 
Because your opponents don’t want to feel like they’re being bullied, so they’ll play 
back at you from time to time. 
 
And when THEY really have a great hand, they’ll be even more aggressive… which will 
give you a clear read on them and will let you know when to fold. 
 
Let’s look at another example: 
 
You’re on the button and you get dealt: 
 
 
 
 
Brad is third to act and he throws out a pre-flop raise… making it 1000 to play. Everyone 
folds to his bet and the action is now to you. 
 
Because of your good positioning and monster hand, you decide to re-raise Brad. 
 
“Make it 5000”, you say. 
 
Brad looks down at his cards for a second time. After a long delay, he finally calls his bet. 
 
After reading Brad’s reaction, you feel like you’ve probably got the best hand at this 
point. You’re putting him on a medium wired pair or a hand like A-Q or A-J. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 84 - 
 
Brad is first to act. He checks. 
 
You’ve missed you’re A-K completely… but once again, Brad doesn’t know that.  
 
 So you make a strong bet of 8000 with your Ace high. You make this bet because you 
want to represent a high pocket pair. You’d like to drag the pot down NOW… but even if 
Brad calls you’ve got a lot of outs with your two over cards. You could easily hit your 
King or Ace on the turn or river. 
 
Instead, Brad looks down at his two cards again and then mucks his hand. He’s forced to 
fold… considering your pre-flop raise and strong post-flop bet. He’s got to put you on a 
high pocket pair. 
 
Representing the flop is a core strategy of power poker. If you raise before the flop, 
follow it up with another bet after the flop. Always play like you’re holding pocket 
Rockets. It will DEFINITELY pay off for you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 85 - 
 
POT-COMMITTED 
 
For every big hand you lose, the most common explanation will be that you became 
POT-COMMITTED.  
 
“Pot-committed” is usually caused by these three things: 
 
1. Your lack of anticipation. 
 
2. Your emotional attachment to the hand. 
 
3. Chasing or playing a bad starting hand. 
 
The first reason is the most important one of all… LACK OF ANTICIPATION. You’ve got 
to anticipate what’s going to happen AFTER you make your call, bet, raise, whatever… 
and go through the possible scenarios. 
 
The second reason is the same cause of TILT. It has to do with a lack of patience or 
maybe just a player’s irrational emotions regarding his opponent.  
 
The third reason is a sheer lack of discipline… when you call the blinds just because you 
“feel lucky” on this one… or because you chase a gutshot or something silly like that. 
 
Let’s look at an example of these concepts in action… 
 
Bob has good positioning at his local $1-2 no limit game and looks down to see: 
 
 
 
 
This is the strongest hand he’s seen in a few hours.  
 
 
 
 
- 86 - 
The action circles around the table. 
 
Mitch—a very tight player—comes in for a raise. Mitch is fourth to act. 
 
Bob KNOWS that Mitch is a tight player, but he just can’t seem to lay his K-J down. He’s 
EMOTIONALLY ATTACHED to the hand, because he hasn’t seen good cards for awhile 
and feels like he’s ENTITLED to a winning hand. 
 
So Bob calls Mitch’s $40 bet, a rather large pre-flop raise at this table. 
 
Already, Bob is pot-committed. He’s clearly not thinking about what’s going to happen 
AFTER the flop… and how Mitch is going to open the action. EVEN IF Bob catches top 
pair or a flush draw, he’s STILL not in good shape. Because there’s a good chance Mitch 
has him out-kicked… and Bob is not going to want to pay for the turn and river hoping 
for the flush. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Sure enough, Bob hit top pair.  
 
But with absolutely no hesitation, Mitch comes out firing a $75 bet. 
 
What now? 
 
Bob completely failed to ANTICIPATE this. This is a GREAT flop, but not great 
enough… because Bob has no clue what Mitch is holding, but he has to figure it’s 
something great. 
 
Bob hesitates… then calls.  
 
Now he’s REALLY pot-committed. 
 
And you can see where this story is going… 
 
The turn hits blank and Mitch comes out firing again. Bob ends up losing almost his 
entire stack to Mitch’s Big Slick, because Bob became POT-COMMITTED. 
 
 
 
- 87 - 
 
Don’t do this.  
 
Ever! 
 
The way to prevent being pot-committed is to NOT let emotions get involved. Stay 
logical. Think about what’s going to happen on the NEXT card. And don’t chase hands… 
calculate your pot odds and play the hand accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
- 88 - 
 
SLOW PLAYING 
 
Honestly, I don’t really feel like it’s necessary for great card players to slow play their 
hands too often. It’s just not a needed part of the game. 
 
Sure, on occasion you’re going to flop a full house or four-of-a-kind and you’ll need to 
slow play the hand in order to let your opponents “catch up” to you and hit something 
on the turn or river… but even then, that’s only if you sense complete weakness at the 
table. 
 
For the most part, an aggressive and strong poker player can bet his monster flops and 
hands and get paid off almost all the time. 
 
Here’s what I’m talking about… 
 
Let’s say I’ve got good positioning at a no limit cash game and I get dealt: 
 
 
 
 
A few of my opponents limp-in by calling the big blind and the action is to me. I decide 
to also limp-in… Darren is on the button, I expect him to throw out a pre-flop raise like 
he usually does from that position. 
 
This time, however, he just limps-in… which is a surprise to me. The small blind limps-
in and the big blind checks. So there are six players in to see the flop… all I’m hoping for 
here is to get very lucky and see some spades hit the board.  
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
- 89 - 
 
 
 
 
Bingo. 
 
I’ve just caught the lucky flop I was looking for and hit the nut flush. And now it’s all 
about figuring out how to make the most money possible from the hand. 
 
As I look at my opponents, no one seems to be very interested in this hand. They’re 
mostly just chatting away… not engaged in the action. 
 
So I pretend to be interested in the conversation and jump in there with a story of my 
own. I don’t want my opponents to know that I’ve got a monster… by being the only guy 
at the table with his mouth closed.  
 
While the conversation continues, all of my opponents check around to me. 
 
And THIS is one of those very rare occasions where I’ll slow play my hand. I sense 
complete weakness and I know that if I throw out a bet everyone will fold. No one’s pot-
committed… so I’m going to let everyone see the turn for free and hope that someone 
hits. 
 
The next card comes: 
 
 
 
This guarantees me that I’ve still got the best hand. I’m WISHING that someone was 
holding Q-J and just hit their straight… but it doesn’t appear so. Still no signs of interest 
from anyone at the table. 
 
Everyone checks the ten of diamonds… so I do the same. I’m going to win the hand 
either way, and even the minimum bet here is probably going to force everyone out. The 
river comes: 
 
 
 
 
- 90 - 
 
 
If someone has a Queen, they’ve just made their straight. And with only three spades on 
the board, they’re probably thinking they’ve got the best hand with all the checking 
that’s been going on. 
 
Finally the conversation stops… this is a sure sign that SOMEONE at the table got 
something. Josh is first to act and he checks. Brad is next and throws out a reasonable 
sized bet. The next guy folds and the action is to me. 
 
Now I have to make a raise. My raise needs to be STRONG, but not TOO STRONG. 
Because I don’t want him to know I have the flush. So I come back over the top of him 
for 2.5 times his original bet. 
 
Everyone else still in the pot mucks their hands… and the action is back to Brad. He 
looks at his down cards again… and I can tell he doesn’t want to call this bet. But he has 
to. He’s probably putting me on the Queen… which means we’d just split the pot.  
 
Plus, he knows I bluff a lot, and he might be thinking that I’m just trying to steal this pot 
right out from under him. 
 
So he calls… and sure enough he’s got the straight. 
 
“Sorry Brad…”, I say as I turn over my cards, “I had to slow-play the flush that time 
because I knew no one had a hand.” 
 
And I rake the pot… A pot I would NOT have gotten had I bet on the flop or turn. 
 
This example is fairly extreme for a reason… because it demonstrates the ONLY type of 
situation where I’d slow play my hand. I’ll only slow play when I know my opponents 
well and am EXTREMELY CONFIDENT that they don’t have a hand. 
 
OK… let’s look at another scenario. This happened to be down in Tunica, Mississippi in 
a no limit cash game… 
 
Here’s what I got dealt as my two down cards: 
 
 
 
 
- 91 - 
 
 
 
This isn’t exactly one of my favorite hands. In fact, I usually won’t raise with A-J unless 
I’m on the button. I think the hand is trouble if I hit my Ace on the flop… there are just 
too many instances where I’ve run into A-K or A-Q. 
 
But anyway… I’d been playing aggressively the entire night at this casino and had just 
suffered a bad beat with pocket Jacks. I was third to act pre-flop and simply limped-in 
with my A-J of diamonds because I was sure that someone behind me was going to 
make a pre-flop raise at this very aggressive table. 
 
I don’t mind calling a medium bet with suited A-J. But I didn’t want to make the raise… 
only to get re-raised… and be forced to act early after the flop. That’s the situation I was 
trying to avoid here. 
 
Sure enough, the guy sitting across from me makes it $40 to play. A couple other guys 
jump into the action and it’s my turn. 
 
Now I’m happy to be sitting here with A-J suited with this nice-sized pot. I’ve got great 
pot odds and a good hand for busting my opponents. 
 
My lucky flop arrives: 
 
 
 
 
 
I’ve got the nut flush. 
 
I’m first to act. And unlike in the first example of this chapter, I come out firing with a 
$60 bet. 
 
Why? 
 
Well, because I’m sure that at least one of my opponents has an over-pair to the 2, 8, 
and 10 on the board. I’ve already established myself as an aggressive player that’s going 
 
 
 
- 92 - 
to push the action… so I’m confident that one of my opponents is going to play back at 
me or call my bet with a hand like pocket Kings or Aces. 
 
This bet also makes my opponents think that there’s NO WAY I have the flush. Ironic, 
isn’t it? You see, if I had the flush they’d expect me to slow play the hand by checking 
and trying to trap them. 
 
After all, that’s how most players would play the nut flush… and strong players know 
this. So I do the unexpected. 
 
Like I said before… I really don’t slow play many hands. Because I don’t have to. My 
aggressive style of play gets me action with my monster hands. 
 
And that’s exactly what ended up happening in this situation… 
 
The guy who made the original pre-flop raise decides to come back over the top of me. 
He pulls out a crisp $100 Benji from under his stack and places it in the pot without 
saying a word. 
 
The next two opponents fold and the action is back to me. I think for just a few 
moments… but not too long. I don’t want to use too much drama. A good player can see 
right through that kind of acting job. 
 
“I call”, I say.  
 
The turn card doesn’t pair the board… so I’ve still got the nuts. 
 
“Check”, I say… as I tap my fist against the table. 
 
And the reason I check here is because I know that my opponent is going to fire again. 
He may put me on the flush draw… and since the turn card wasn’t a diamond, he’ll bet 
again. He’s NOT going to re-raise me on the flop and then just check the turn card. 
 
I GUESS you can kind of call this a slow-play, but not really. I’m not trying to trap my 
opponent… I simply know he’s going to place a bet. 
 
Sure enough, he bets $200… 
 
To make a long story short, I end up raking in a huge pot and become the new chip 
leader. 
 
 
 
 
- 93 - 
And that’s how I feel about slow playing… If you’re an aggressive enough player, you just 
don’t have to do it very much. You’ll get called with your monsters. Heck, you might 
even get re-raised like I did in the second example. 
 
But that doesn’t mean you should take slow playing out of your game completely. It’s a 
tool… a tool that you should use sparingly when you sense complete weakness in the 
table like I did in the first example. When someone gets a hand then you can bust 
them… and rake in a lot of chips. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 94 - 
 
WHEN SLOW PLAYING BACKFIRES 
 
Another reason that I don’t like to slow play my monster hands is because it can easily 
BACKFIRE and cause bad beats.  
 
This happens when you check a monster flop… hoping someone will bet or make some 
type of hand. The problem comes when someone DOES end up making a hand… 
BETTER THAN YOURS. 
 
Don’t let this happen to you. Carefully analyze the cards on the board. Like I said in the 
last chapter, there are times you’ll WANT to slow-play a big flop when your opponents 
are weak. That’s when you must check to let them catch something. But BE CAREFUL! 
You must be sure that no one can make a hand that ends up being BETTER than yours. 
 
Here is an example: 
 
Let’s say you’re at a casino and you down at: 
 
 
 
 
You’ve got good positioning. A few of your opponents limp-in by calling the big blind 
(1000 in chips)… and so the action is to you. 
 
You’re not feeling that good about pocket deuces so you decide to limp-in and hope to 
spike a two on the flop. Josh and Aaron… both to your left… also call the big blind. That 
means there are five players seeing the flop. 
 
It hits: 
 
 
 
 
- 95 - 
 
 
 
 
Perfect. 
 
You’ve flopped your set… and you’re looking to rake in a nice pot. 
 
Unfortunately, everyone checks immediately. You look over to Josh and Aaron… who 
will both act after you… and they don’t look like they’re going to be making any bets. 
 
You figure a check might be good here. You don’t want to scare anyone away. So you 
check… and Josh and Aaron both do the same. 
 
The turn comes: 
 
 
 
And once again, everyone checks to you. You sense weakness and continue to slow-play 
your trips. Josh checks… and Aaron actually MUCKS his hand, even though he can see a 
free river card. 
 
GREAT, you’re thinking. You finally hit a monster hand and people are folding even 
when they can see free cards. It doesn’t look like you’re going to get paid off in this one. 
 
The river comes… 
 
 
 
Now the board reads: 
 
 
 
 
- 96 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cindy is first to act and throws out a 2000 bet… the next opponent mucks it and the 
action is to you. 
 
You’re excited now… because you may actually get some action after all. You make a re-
raise… 
 
“Make it 5,000”, you say, as you push in a big stack of chips. 
 
Josh comes right back over the top of you with no hesitation. 
 
“10,000”, he says. 
 
And now you have NO idea about what the hell is going on. Everyone checks, checks, 
checks… and now all of the sudden Cindy comes out betting and Josh makes a re-raise. 
Did everyone just make a hand or something? 
 
You look at the board again and suddenly it all starts to make sense. You realize that you 
TOTALLY misplayed the hand because you didn’t analyze the cards carefully enough. 
You were too caught up in your trips to see what was going on. 
 
The flop didn’t scare you one bit… because there were three different suits (a “rainbow 
flop”). But the turn brought ANOTHER diamond and a possible straight draw. THAT’S 
where you should have made your opponents pay to see another card. 
 
Instead, you were so caught up in your two’s in hopes that you’d actually win some 
money with them. And in the process you gave everyone another free card. And now you 
realize that Cindy made her 6-5 straight… and Josh made his backdoor diamond flush 
draw. 
 
And basically, you’re screwed. Your trip two’s are no good here anymore. 
 
You’re forced to lay the hand down. And it’s all because you misplayed it by trying to 
SLOW-PLAY and letting your opponents catch up (and take the lead).  
 
 
 
 
- 97 - 
That’s why it’s important to analyze every card that hits the board. The minute you see 
any POSSIBLE signs of a draw, bet your big hand. Do NOT let others come in and see 
free cards with a draw and then bust you later.  
 
This is how SLOW PLAYING backfires… and it’s yet another reason to avoid SLOW 
PLAYING big hands. Instead, just come out betting them in the first place.  
 
 
 
 
- 98 - 
 
CHECK RAISE 
 
Honestly, I don’t really use the check raise maneuver in my style of play either. It doesn’t 
make it a BAD play… it just doesn’t fit with my particular style in live games.  
 
(Online, I’ll sometimes use the check raise to BLUFF an opponent… since most players 
online interpret check raises as major signs of strength.) 
 
The reason is because I can usually get action with my big hands… I don’t need to check 
raise them. 
 
There are times, of course, where a check raise is the right play. I’ll use it occasionally to 
mix up my play. I’ll also use it if I get a tell on a player. 
 
An example of when I might use a check raise is if I’m in the small blind and pick up A-2. 
Everyone folds and it’s just me and the big blind left. I limp-in with my A-2, not a bad 
hand considering there are only two players left. 
 
The big blind checks and the flop hits with an Ace. I know my opponent doesn’t have an 
Ace, but I also know that if I bet here he’ll fold. So I just check, and sure enough he 
throws out a bet trying to steal the pot. That’s when I raise with my top pair. And then 
he folds. 
 
The only time I’d do a play like this is when I know my opponent and have a great read 
on him… and it’s only to pick up a few extra chips. 
 
Another time I might check raise is when I pick up an unbeatable monster like quads 
(four-of-a-kind). If I’ve got pocket three’s and the flop hits A-3-3 and I’m first to act… I’ll 
probably just check. I don’t want to scare everyone out right away… I’d rather let 
someone with the Ace bet first and become pot-committed, that way I can win more 
with my monster. 
 
But like I said, I’m just not a big fan of using the check raise. If you use the strategies in 
this book and adopt my style of play you’ll probably find it fairly useless as well. 
 
 
 
 
- 99 - 
Now… one thing to WATCH OUT for is when your OPPONENT check raises. If you 
throw out semi-bluffs and feeler bets frequently, you’ll often run into check raises. And 
that’s usually a sign to head for the hills. 
 
Amateurs are especially fond of the check raise when they have a monster… which 
makes it pretty damn easy to get a read on them.   
 
If you find ways to successfully incorporate the check raise into your game, go for it. A 
lot of it depends on the stakes you’re playing at, your opponents, and your overall 
playing style. But I don’t use it much, and I know that many pros feel the same way. 
 
 
 
 
- 100 - 
 
HEADS-UP PLAY 
 
Heads-up skill is perhaps the most IMPORTANT— yet most UNDERDEVELOPED— 
skill for most no limit Holdem players. After all, in order to win FIRST in any given 
tournament or game, you ultimately must win the heads-up match. 
 
But the problem is, most players don’t find themselves in heads-up situations 
FREQUENTLY enough to practice and perfect their skill. Heads-up matches often only 
last a FEW HANDS… which isn’t nearly enough time to learn the art of winning one-on-
one. 
 
I’m going to share with you step-by-step what you need to know to become a dominating 
heads-up player. Here we go… 
 
1. Bet, bet, bet. 
 
You cannot and will not win at heads-up poker if you only play premium cards. The 
reason is simple: For most hands, NEITHER you nor your opponent will catch good 
cards. It’s simple mathematics. 
 
That means you’ve got to win another way: By making your opponent fold! And the only 
way to do this is… 
 
Yep, you guessed it. BET. 
 
2. Show the occasional bluff. 
 
This step is optional… but often very powerful. Heads-up poker is very much about 
PSYCHOLOGY and INTIMIDATION… so take any steps to confuse and scare your 
opponent. 
 
What I like to do in heads-up is come out raging like a bull… betting at tons of hands. 
Then I slow down. Then I show a bluff. And all this time, my opponent is wondering, 
“What the hell is with this guy?” 
 
 
 
 
- 101 - 
Your opponent is going to be studying you… trying to get a read… and that’s why mixing 
it up is so important. And that’s why I personally like to show a bluff once in awhile… at 
a time when I think it will “tilt” my enemy. 
 
3. Control the “stakes”. 
 
By taking control of the tempo of the heads-up match, you can also influence the 
“stakes” you play at. 
 
Here’s what I mean… 
 
If the blinds in a heads-up match are low (in a heads-up Sit & Go, for example), the 
match can go for a really long time… or a really short time… or somewhere in between. 
 
It all depends on the players. Some players—when they get heads-up—start pushing all-
in with any Ace, pair, or decent looking hand.  
 
Other players prefer to play the heads-up match more slowly…  
 
So which way is better? The answer depends on if you’re playing against a MORE 
SKILLED or LESS SKILLED player than yourself. 
 
If you’re up against someone better than you, you want to set the tempo to “high stakes”. 
It’s like turning up a volume knob…  
 
When you pick up a good starting hand, bet very aggressively. No doubling the blinds 
here… risk a QUARTER… or maybe HALF of your chips on a hand.  
 
The first few times you play this way your opponent will probably just fold… surprised at 
how aggressive you are. But soon he’ll adapt, and he’ll start pushing with HIS good 
hands. 
 
And after that, it really comes down to more of a coin toss than anything else. You have 
the slight advantage, because you’ve set the tempo and still have an element of control. 
 
If you’re up against a more skilled player but can get your chances to 51%, then you 
should do it. 
 
Now… on the other hand… 
 
Let’s say you’re up against a LESS SKILLED player. That means you should keep the 
stakes LOW… and slowly grind their stack down. 
 
 
 
- 102 - 
 
Don’t make all-in bets. Play it slow. 
 
Your goal is to PREVENT the match from becoming a “coin toss”… because you’re better 
than him. 
 
4. Give a false sense of hope. 
 
After stealing a lot of pots with your aggressive betting… and after “tilting” your 
opponent by showing a bluff… it’s time to back down and give your rival the FEELING 
OF HOPE. 
 
Start falling into a few betting “patterns” that any 4-year old would be able to recognize. 
(Of course, your opponent is going to feel like a GENIUS when he notices them.) 
 
For instance, let’s say you raised 300 pre-flop and then bet 1000 on the flop on that 
bluff you showed. 
 
Well, bet 300 again pre-flop. And again. And again. Do it every time you have bad cards. 
Your opponent will catch on… or he’ll catch some good cards… and soon he’ll raise you. 
 
When he does that, fold. When he does it again, fold. And so on. 
 
Of course, this “pattern” isn’t going to be like five hands in a row. You’ve got to space 
them out. 
 
Your goal is to get your opponent thinking he’s got you “figured out”… and that you bet 
300 pre-flop when you don’t have anything good. And that any time you get re-raised, 
you fold. 
 
5. Let them make the wrong move. 
 
Now that your opponent feels HOPE… it’s time to let them step into your trap. When 
you pick up a REAL hand, play it EXACTLY like you did the bad hands. 
 
Your opponent will raise you… but THIS time you make a re-raise. Or maybe you just 
call, and string them out. Get them pot-committed… and frustrated.  
 
On the turn card, your opponent will think you’ve got nothing… and will come at you 
with an even LARGER bet… 
 
See where this is going? 
 
 
 
- 103 - 
 
The key to winning heads-up is to make your opponent COME TO YOU when you’ve got 
the best hand. The reason this is so powerful is because it lowers your risk. You’ve got a 
REAL hand… so you’re not worried about getting beat. All you’re concerned about is 
how to TRAP your rival. 
 
The exact betting “patterns” you set up for your opponent… and the exact way you go for 
the “kill” are irrelevant. The execution will differ for every opponent. 
 
What’s important is that you understand the GOAL of each stage. 
 
The final thought I want to leave you with about heads-up poker is that PRACTICE is 
crucial to your success. 
 
The best way to practice is to find a buddy and play him heads-up all night… over and 
over and over and over again. Put five bucks on each game, or whatever. 
 
Heads-up poker requires a special “sense”. It’s not like regular multi-player poker… the 
starting hands are different, the betting patterns are different, and so on. 
 
In heads-up no limit Holdem, pretty much anything goes. Any card over ten is worth 
playing… and even two cards UNDER ten are often worth playing. 
 
Go practice with a friend and get a feel for it. Put the strategies from this chapter into 
action… and also practice some of your own. 
 
After whomping your buddy, go find another poker friend and play with him. Just 
because you can beat one person consistently doesn’t mean you’re “good” at heads-up 
poker. Every opponent is different. 
 
The other great way to practice, of course, is online at heads-up Sit & Go’s. Be careful, 
though… there are a lot of “sharks” in these rooms who have played THOUSANDS upon 
THOUSANDS of heads-up matches. Only play the low stakes to start— otherwise you 
may be quickly discouraged. 
 
OK, that’s it for heads-up poker. Remember… this is a KEY skill for Texas Holdem 
mastery. 
 
 
 
 
- 104 - 
 
 
CHAPTER 23: HOW TO PLAY BIG SLICK 
CHAPTER 24: HOW TO PLAY ACE NINE AND UNDER 
CHAPTER 25: HOW TO PLAY POCKET JACKS 
CHAPTER 26: HOW TO PLAY LOW WIRED PAIRS 
CHAPTER 27: HOW TO PLAY POCKET KINGS 
CHAPTER 28: HOW TO PLAY POCKET ACES 
CHAPTER 29: HOW TO PLAY SUITED-CONNECTORS 
CHAPTER 30: HOW TO PLAY SEMI-CONNECTORS 
CHAPTER 31: HOW TO PLAY HIDDEN HANDS 
 
 
 
- 105 - 
 
 
HOW TO PLAY BIG SLICK 
 
Sure, Big Slick is a monster hand. And yes, it should be played in an aggressive manner.  
 
But all too often I see players lose their entire stack with these two cards… simply 
because they pushed in their chips thinking the hand was invincible, only to see Darren 
call with pocket 5’s and take the pot down. 
 
And that’s where it becomes a coin flip. Do you want your entire poker tournament or 
game to be decided by a coin flip or “luck”? 
 
Of course not. 
 
When I sit down at the table, I try to take as much LUCK out of the game of poker as 
possible.  I let my STYLE decide the winner… Period. 
 
So how do I play Big Slick? 
 
AGGRESSIVELY, BUT NOT RECKLESSLY. 
 
Here’s how I played the hand (with good positioning) just a few days ago in a local 
money game… see what you think: 
 
I was just right of the button in a $1-2 no limit game when I was dealt the monster. 
 
Josh was third to act before the flop and made a raise.  “$10 to play”, he says. 
 
Two of my opponents call the bet and the action is on me and my AK of diamonds. 
 
This is where I decided to find out where I’m at in the hand… compared to the other 
players… so I make a move on Josh and CHALLENGE him to see how strong he really is. 
 
I re-raise.  “Make it $40 to play”, as I push in my red chips. 
 
 
 
 
- 106 - 
Now here’s why I did the re-raise: 
 
1. First off, it gives me a “feel” as to where I stand against my opponents. I can get a 
more accurate read on the other players and what they’re holding. 
 
If they simply CALL, I’ve probably got the best hand at the table.  If one of them is 
sitting on Cowboys or Rockets, they’d most likely go back over the top of me with an 
even larger raise or an all-in. 
 
It’s CRUCIAL that you find out where you’re at in a hand. Re-raising accomplishes this 
goal. 
 
2. My re-raise over Josh’s bet gives me CONTROL of the betting, which is also very 
important as you know.  I want to be the guy at the table that dictates the action and 
STRIKES FEAR into my opponents with my aggressive play.  The re-raise does this. 
 
3. Because I’m the one that made the pre-flop raise, my opponents are fairly likely to 
check to me on the flop… regardless of what hits.   
 
Why wouldn’t they? 
 
They anticipate another bet from me.  Most strong players will follow up a pre-flop raise 
with a post-flop raise… regardless of the cards.  This gives me a huge advantage, even if I 
don’t hit an Ace or King on the flop. 
 
For instance, let’s say the flop hits 3-5-9 and my opponents check to me.  I come out 
firing with another bet, even though I hit nothing. My opponents have to put me on a 
high wired pair (wouldn’t you?) and muck their hands… 
 
Anyway… back to the hand as it REALLY happened. 
 
Josh was the only player to call my pre-flop re-raise of $40.  Now I’ve put myself in a 
good position to take this baby down after the flop… no matter what hits. 
 
Flop comes out: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 107 - 
Not exactly what I was looking for. 
 
But remember, Josh has NO CLUE that I’m holding A-K. He has to put me on a big 
hand… like Queens, Kings, or Aces, due to my re-raise before the flop. 
 
Josh says exactly what I expected him to say, “I check.” 
 
That’s where my aggressive play really pays off.  I can now represent the wired pair with 
a big bet. 
 
“Fifty dollars” I say as I throw two green $25 chips into the middle.  
 
The rest, of course, is history.  
 
Josh mucks his hand and I rake in a nice pot with my Ace high. 
 
That, my friend, is what I mean by playing big slick aggressively, but NOT recklessly. I 
made a pre-flop re-raise, but I didn’t do anything crazy like go all-in and leave the game 
up to a coin toss. 
 
The re-raise before the flop allows you the opportunity to get OUT of the hand if 
necessary.  Had Josh came back over the top of me with a large bet or an all-in, I would 
have mucked the hand.  I don’t want my entire night decided over my A-K.  I’ve laid 
down Big Slick many times before the flop… and I’m sure I’ll do it many times in the 
future. 
 
Remember: Aggressive, not reckless. 
 
Your method for playing Big Slick should look something like this… 
 
1. Raise pre-flop to narrow the field to one or two callers. 
 
2. Get a read on your opponent. Will you be able to force him to fold after the flop? Or 
does he possibly have a monster? 
 
3. Represent the flop. Don’t back down. 
 
4. If your opponent calls your bet on the flop, back off. Be careful not to bluff when 
there’s a draw on the board or possible trips. Try to put your opponent on a hand. 
 
Your pre-flop strategy should be mostly based on your POSITIONING and whether or 
not you sense weakness at the table. 
 
 
 
- 108 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY ACE NINE AND UNDER 
 
Let’s talk about how to play A-9 and under… Here are the starting hands I’m talking 
about: A-9, A-8, A-7, A-6, A-5, A-4, A-3, and A-2. 
 
First, let’s look at how to play them at a table with eight players or more. In this 
situation, A-9 and under are TROUBLE. A lot of amateurs will make the mistake of 
thinking that any hand with an Ace in it is good… 
 
But they are wrong, wrong, wrong. 
 
Let’s look at the times when you SHOULD play A-9 and under: 
 
1. When your two cards are SUITED and you can see a cheap flop. In this case, you will 
sometimes get lucky and hit the nut flush… 
 
2. A-5 and under have a chance of hitting the straight. Once again, only if you can see a 
cheap flop… 
 
3. If you’re on the button or just to the right of the button and you sense weakness in 
your opponents… 
 
I’ll never call a raise with A-9 and under… even when I’m on the button. It’s just too easy 
for someone else to have the Ace with a better kicker. And your odds at hitting the flush 
(when your cards are suited) are slim so it’s not worth calling a raise. 
 
Those are really the only three instances where I’ll play A-9 and under at a table with 
eight or more players. And in all three instances, it’s only when I’m in good positioning, 
sense weakness, and can see a flop for a decent price. 
 
If the table has FEWER than five players, I will play A-9 and under. I’ll often actually 
make a RAISE with it… because with fewer than five players it could easily be the best 
hand at the table. 
 
OK, let’s look at how playing A-9 and under at an 8-man table can lead to trouble… 
 
 
 
- 109 - 
 
Let’s say you’re fourth to act before the flop and you look down at your cards: 
 
 
 
 
This might be the best-looking hand you’ve seen in an hour… so you stubbornly decide 
to try to limp-in with it by calling the big blind ($2). 
 
A couple of other opponents also limp-in and then the action goes to Josh, who’s on the 
button. 
 
“Make it $10 to play”, he says, as he tosses two red chips into the pot. 
 
The action is back to you with your A-8 off-suit. You’ve got $2 invested and think, “Why 
not… it’s only $8 more, and there’s already a decent pot forming.” 
 
So you incorrectly call Josh’s pre-flop raise. 
 
The other opponents fold and so it’s just you and Josh heads-up. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
You’re first to act. 
 
OK, so you hit your Ace. That’s what you wanted, right? I mean… why else would you 
call a pre-flop raise with A-8?  
 
You know that Josh will probably throw out a bet here if you check it to him. After all, 
he’s the one who made the pre-flop raise. You also know there’s a good chance he has an 
Ace too… and in that case, his kicker has probably got you beat. It’s unlikely that he 
raised the pot with something like A-6. 
 
I’d say that at least half of the raised hands in poker usually involve an Ace. That’s why 
it’s so silly to play the hands A-9 and under because you’re just going to get burnt. 
 
 
 
- 110 - 
 
So anyway… back to the hand. You decide to throw out a bet with top pair to see where 
you’re at in the hand (which isn’t a bad play here… the bad play came when you tried to 
limp-in). 
 
“Fifteen dollars”, you say… hoping Josh will muck his cards or just call. 
 
Instead, he comes right back over the top of you… “Make it $30”, he says. 
 
Now you’re thinking that he’s either making a move on you with something like pocket 
Kings… or he really does have the Ace with a kicker. 
 
But you can’t fold the hand. You just can’t stand to muck top pair. And it’s not your 
fault… most players can’t. They just don’t have the discipline. 
 
So you call… The turn card comes: 
 
 
 
Now the board is paired. The action is to you. 
 
You don’t know WHAT to do… after all, Josh could easily have you out-kicked and he’s 
going to make you pay to see the river. If you bet, you’re just going to get raised. If you 
check, you’re showing weakness. 
 
“I check”, you say. 
 
And you get what’s coming to you. Josh fires out a fifty dollar bet with no hesitation. 
 
At this point you’re so pot-committed that you decide to call the bet. 
 
See where this is going? 
 
You’ll check again on the river, and Josh will make a hundred dollar bet or go all-in. 
Then what? How do you muck top pair with a hundred bucks already in the pot? So 
you’ll call his bet on the river… making the excuse that you were already pot-committed. 
 
 
 
- 111 - 
 
Josh will throw over A-Q, of course, and you’ll be out of the game. And it’s all because 
you played your measly A-9 and under in the first place. 
 
Moral of the story? Don’t play A-9 and under unless they’re suited, you’ve got good 
positioning, and you sense weakness at the table.  
 
Because it’s just too likely that your opponent will out-kick you… and it’s going to be too 
difficult to lay down top pair after becoming pot-committed. This strategy will save you 
tons of lost chips. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 112 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY POCKET JACKS 
 
Pocket Jacks is the hand that everyone loves to hate. Experienced poker players have 
had their Jacks run down countless times… and struggle to find the right way to play it. 
 
Fortunately, there IS a way to play pocket Jacks and consistently rake in nice pots. 
Here’s how: 
 
Let’s say you’re at an 8-man no limit table and the blinds are $2-4. You’re third to act 
before the flop. You look down at your cards: 
 
 
 
 
Luckily for you, you’ve just read my book, and you’re now prepared to play these bad 
boys the RIGHT way. 
 
You raise the pot and make it $30 to play. This is a rather large pre-flop raise at this 
table. Most of your opponents are only raising to $10 or maybe $20 before the flop. But 
you’re not going to make a wimpy raise with your “hooks”. 
 
No way. You’re either going to rake in the blinds NOW, or narrow the field to one 
caller… two at the most. If there are more than two opponents in the hand you’re going 
to lose. 
 
If you had only made an $8 pre-flop raise that five players called, you’d better spike a 
Jack on the flop… because that’s the only way you’ll win the pot. But you don’t want to 
WASTE your pocket Jacks and give up on them like that… so you make the large raise. 
 
And it works out perfectly. Darren is the only player to call your bet. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
- 113 - 
 
 
 
 
You’re first to act. Now… if you had let more than two players see this flop, someone 
would’ve had the King. But since only Darren is in the hand, you know he probably 
doesn’t have it. He’s probably on the Ace. 
 
So you go with the odds and fire out a $50 bet as though the King helped you. 
 
Darren looks down at his hand for a few moments… then mucks it. He was holding A-Q. 
 
And THAT, my friend, is how you play J-J. Your goal should be to create heads-up 
action. If no one calls, that’s fine. You rake the blinds. If you DO get a caller, bet again 
on the flop… regardless of what hits. Chances are you still have the best hand. You’ll be 
amazed at how many pots you take down by following these simple two steps. 
 
 
 
- 114 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY LOW WIRED PAIRS 
 
Low wired pairs, or small pocket pairs, are tough to play. I consider anything between 
two’s and eight’s (inclusive) to be a low pocket pair.  
 
Most players can’t figure out whether to RAISE with these hands… or limp-in in hopes 
of spiking trips. 
 
The answer is BOTH. It all depends on table positioning. 
 
Let’s look at an example with early table positioning… 
 
You’re second to act before the flop at a $1-2 no limit game and you get dealt: 
 
 
 
 
Brad, who is sitting just to your right (under the gun) is first to act. He mucks his hand. 
So the action is to you and your small pocket pair. This is a situation where you should 
limp-in. 
 
You don’t want to come out firing, because there are too many opponents behind you 
that haven’t had the chance to act yet. If one of them calls or re-raises your bet, you’ll be 
first to act after the flop and you won’t have a read on them at all. The only way to win in 
that type of situation would be to risk all your chips in a bluff or spike your trips. 
 
So instead of raising, you should call the $2 big blind… even though you know someone 
will likely raise the pot in this 8-man game. 
 
The action goes around the table a few other players limp-in and then the action is to 
Darren, who’s on the button. Darren makes it $10 to play. 
 
 
 
 
- 115 - 
This is GOOD for you. Because chances are, only one or two other players will call 
Darren’s raise. The pot size will be good for you… and if you spike a three you’re going to 
take all of Darren’s money. If you DON’T spike a three, you’re going to be out just $10. 
 
And THAT is how you play a small pocket pair from early positioning. Just limp-in… call 
any small or moderate pre-flop raises… and hope to spike your card on the flop. If you 
DON’T hit your card, you should probably muck it if the other guy bets strong. 
 
The only situation where you’d want to stay in the hand aggressively is if your pocket 
pair is higher than any card on the board. In that case, you probably still have the best 
hand, and you can try to take it down. 
 
Don’t raise with small pocket pairs from an early position. Here’s why:  
 
Let’s say in the example above you made a pre-flop raise of $20 with your three’s. The 
action went around the table and Darren was the only caller. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Now what? 
 
You don’t want to show weakness by checking. After all, you’re the one who made the 
pre-flop raise. But you don’t want to BET again because there’s a good chance Darren 
has the Ace. But since you threw out the pre-flop raise, you decide to bet again: 
 
“Make it $50”, you say. 
 
Darren calls with very little hesitation. Obviously a bad sign for you. 
 
The turn card comes: 
 
 
 
 
 
- 116 - 
 
And you’re first to act again. Now what? Should you continue to bluff with an even 
LARGER bet? Should you check and show Darren your weakness? 
 
This is how raising with a small pocket pair from the early positions can get ugly… fast. 
That’s why I’ll limp-in from these positions and call any small raises. If someone behind 
you has a monster and makes an aggressive pre-flop raise, you can get out of the hand 
having lost only the big blind bet.  
 
If you don’t hit your trips, you can muck the hand with a minimum loss. And if you DO 
hit your trips, you will double up. Minimum risk of chips, maximum gain… that’s how to 
play these hands. 
 
OK, so we’ve talked about early positioning. Let’s talk about LATE positioning with 
small wired pairs now… which is good positioning. 
 
Let’s say you’re just to the right of the button and you look down at: 
 
 
 
 
Josh is third to act before the flop and he makes it $15 to play. Brad and Nathan both 
call. And the action is to you. 
 
This is another situation where you should simply CALL the pre-flop raise. You don’t 
want to go back over the top of three opponents, because someone could easily be 
holding a monster. If that’s the case, they’re going to re-raise you and then you’re in 
trouble. 
 
It’s better to just smooth call the $15 here and hope for a five on the flop. If the five hits, 
you’re going to double up on one of your opponents… especially if one of them has a 
monster like Kings. 
 
So once again… in this type of situation, the proper play is to minimize the risk of chips 
by just calling, but maximize the potential gains when you hit your trips. 
 
Let’s look at another example of playing a small wired pair in late positioning. You’re to 
the right of the button again and you look down at your cards: 
 
 
 
 
- 117 - 
 
 
 
This time, Josh, Brad, and Nathan all LIMP-IN by calling the $2 big blind. The action is 
to you. 
 
And this is where you DON’T limp-in. Instead… raise it. 
 
“Make it $20 to play”, you say. 
 
And the reason you do this is because you know you’ve probably got the best hand right 
now. After all, all three of your opponents only limped-in. By raising, you’re likely to 
create heads-up action or steal all the blinds right now… both are great scenarios. 
 
Anyway… so the hand plays out and Brad is the only caller. Perfect. You’ve created 
heads-up action with your small wired pair… AND MORE IMPORTANTLY, you’ve got 
the best positioning. Brad has to act first before you after the flop, turn, and river. 
 
You also have a much better idea of what Brad is holding now. He just limped-in at first 
and now he just called. No raises. That means he probably has two over-cards like K-Q 
or K-J. He may have a small wired pair, just like you. 
 
Either way, you’re in control of this hand and have a good chance at winning this pot. 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Brad checks to you. 
 
Now although you missed your five, Brad doesn’t know that. For all he knows, you’ve got 
a big hand like A-K or A-Q. So you MUST represent the flop. That’s the beauty of having 
good table positioning with a small wired pair. 
 
“$40 to play”, you say. 
 
 
 
 
- 118 - 
Brad shakes his head… thinks for a moment… and then says, “I just can’t call.” He flips 
over his pocket seven’s for you to see. 
 
Even though Brad had the better hand, YOU won the pot. And the reason is because you 
had the best positioning and made the pre-flop raise to create heads-up action. 
 
To summarize, here are the general “principles” to keep in mind when you get small 
wired pairs: 
 
Early/Bad Positioning, Pre-Flop: 
• LIMP-IN with your small wired pair. 
• CALL small to moderate pre-flop raises. 
• DON’T CALL huge pre-flop raises. 
 
Late/Good Positioning, Pre-Flop: 
• CALL if the pots been raised a small/moderate amount. 
• RAISE if everyone else tries to limp-in, in order to create heads-up action with good 
positioning or steal the blinds. 
 
Early/Bad Positioning, Post-Flop: 
• If you don’t hit your three-of-a-kind, you should probably muck the hand and live to 
see another day.  
• If you hit your three-of-a-kind, get as much money from the hand as possible. 
 
Late/Good Positioning, Post-Flop: 
• If you don’t hit your three-of-a-kind, you can still win the hand by leveraging your 
positioning. 
• If you hit your three-of-a-kind, get as much money from the hand as possible. 
 
 
 
 
- 119 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY POCKET KINGS 
 
Pocket Kings… a.k.a. “Cowboys”… is one of the strongest starting hands in Texas 
Holdem. But just like pocket Aces, you’ve got to know how to play the hand PROPERLY 
in order to be a consistent winner. 
 
The key to playing Kings is to make a strong pre-flop raise to narrow the field to one or 
two callers… and then from there, have the DISCIPLINE to back off if an Ace hits the 
board. 
 
Here’s what I mean: 
 
Let’s say you’re at the usual $1-2 no limit game and you look down at your cards: 
 
 
 
 
You’re fourth to act before the flop… so your positioning isn’t that great. 
 
Josh is under the gun… and he catches your eye by limping-in. Josh is a smart player, 
which means he’s probably got a strong hand. 
 
The next couple opponents muck their cards and the action is to you. This is where 
you’ve got to find out JUST HOW STRONG Josh’s hand really is. 
 
So you announce a raise… making it $15 to play. 
 
The reason for such a large pre-flop raise is that it will only get one or two callers. You 
DON’T want three or more players seeing a flop when you’ve got Kings. Your chances of 
getting run down will be increased. 
 
 
 
 
- 120 - 
Just like with any monster hand, many players are SCARED to raise the pot in fear that 
they won’t get any callers. But you MUST get over this feeling and raise the pot… if 
everyone mucks it, that’s fine. If you get more than two callers, that’s NOT fine. 
 
Besides… if you advertise an aggressive playing style at the table, you WILL get action 
with your big hands. 
 
The other important thing to remember here is that you must be careful with the SIZE of 
your pre-flop raise. This is where paying careful attention to every hand pays off. You 
must know the limits of how much players will pay to see a flop. And then you must bet 
accordingly… to aim at getting just one or maybe two callers. 
 
Here, you know that a $15 raise will only get one or two callers. It won’t get more, 
because this particular table is somewhat tight. 
 
OK, so back to the hand. Everyone folds and the action is back to Josh who’s under the 
gun. He looks down at his cards a second time. He calls. 
 
Now you’re just PRAYING that an Ace doesn’t hit the board on the flop. Josh must have 
a strong hand here because he limped in from first positioning. You’re putting him on 
either A-Q or A-J… or maybe even A-K. 
 
The only thing that will slow you down from here is if an Ace hits the board. If the Ace 
hits, you’re in trouble.  
 
THIS IS IMPORTANT: Do not fall-in love with your Kings so much that you cannot fold 
them! If there’s an Ace on the board and you put your opponent on the Ace, then just get 
over it and live to see another day. 
 
I call this the “Entitlement Effect”… when a player just can’t seem to fold his hand with a 
high pocket pair, even though it’s OBVIOUS his opponent has him beat. 
 
This is simple human psychology at work here. We feel “entitled” to our monster hand… 
and don’t have the DISCIPLINE and LOGIC to fold it away. 
 
Regardless of how the hand plays out from here, you’ve played your Kings perfectly. 
When you get the Cowboys, just remember to make a strong pre-flop raise to get just 
one or two callers, and then go from there. 
 
 If an Ace or an obvious draw hits the board and your opponent comes out firing, be 
careful. Know when to muck your hand and live to see another. 
 
 
 
 
- 121 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY POCKET ACES 
 
Pocket Aces is the BEST possible starting hand… but… it’s also a hand a lot of poker 
amateurs go BUST on. And here’s why: 
 
Let’s say you’re on the button in a $5-10 no limit cash game and you look down at your 
cards: 
 
 
 
 
Bingo. You’ve got the Aces… the Rockets… the American Airlines… whatever you want to 
call it. AND you’ve got great positioning because you’re on the button. 
 
So five players limp-in and call the $10 big blind and the action is to you. You’re so 
excited about your Aces that you don’t want ANYONE to fold to your raise… you want as 
many callers in there as possible because you have the best possible hand, right? 
 
“Make it $35”, you say. (Which is a small raise for this table.) You want ACTION with 
your Rockets… hence the reason for the small raise. All five players call… all feeling they 
have to because of their pot odds. 
 
Now you’re REALLY excited. You’re going to make a FORTUNE with your monster hand. 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 122 - 
The first two players check. Nathan, third to act, bets $50. The next two guys call. And 
suddenly, you’re not quite feeling so confident about your Aces after all. “Why is 
everyone calling the $50 bet?” you wonder. So you decide to call… and not raise it. 
 
The next card comes: 
 
 
 
Nathan checks. So does the next guy. But the guy on your right, Rodney, makes it $300 
to play. 
 
And now you’re even MORE confused. What could Rodney have caught? Did he flop a 
set? Is he just betting top pair? What’s going on? 
 
You stubbornly play your Aces and call the bet… because you just can’t seem to lay them 
down. And after the river card you call his all-in bet, only to see him flip over: 
 
 
 
 
…Which means Rodney wins with two pair over your Rockets, and drags in all the chips. 
 
And the only person you can blame is YOURSELF. You made the wimpy pre-flop raise 
and let five opponents see the flop… no wonder why your hand got run down. 
 
OK, so let’s say you’ve read my book and know the PROPER way to play pocket Aces. 
What do you do? 
 
Well, let’s use the same scenario. You look down at your cards and you’ve got: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 123 - 
 
Except instead of a $35 raise you make it $100 to play. 
 
The goal is to either RAKE THE POT NOW before the flop… or… create heads-up action, 
which is exactly what you want (and need) with your Rockets. 
 
With a $100 bet, you’re not going to get run down by J-9 offsuit. 
 
A lot of players who get run down with pocket Aces complain about the “bad beat” they 
suffered. In truth, it’s NOT a bad beat. It’s a BAD PLAY. 
 
You just can’t let lots of callers see a flop. The odds are no longer in your favor… 
 
Sure, you’re still STATISTICALLY FAVORED to win, but that doesn’t mean your ODDS 
OF WINNING are even over 50%. With five opponents in the hand you’ll be lucky if 
your odds of winning are over 40%. 
 
Anyway… back to the hand.  
 
Brad is the only caller of your $100 bet. The flop comes: 
 
 
 
 
 
Brad, who’s first to act, checks. 
 
You bet $250. 
 
Brad looks down at his pocket ten’s for a second time. He thinks you may be trying to 
bully him… since after all, you always follow your pre-flop raise with another bet on the 
flop, no matter what cards you’re holding. 
 
So Brad plays back at you… 
 
“Make it $750” he says as he pounds a stack of chips down in the center of the table 
aggressively… 
 
The rest, as they say, is history.  
 
 
 
 
- 124 - 
And THAT, my friend, is how you play pocket Aces. You want to make a pre-flop bet that 
will create heads-up action. You DON’T want more than two players seeing the flop with 
you… you’re just going to get run down too easily.  
 
MAXIMIZE your wins and MINIMIZE your risk with this monster hand… and you’ll be 
on your way to the final table. 
 
 
 
 
- 125 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY SUITED-CONNECTORS 
 
A suited-connector is a hand that is SUITED and CONNECTED. For example, these 
hands are “suited-connectors”: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suited-connectors can possibly become some of your biggest money makers over the 
course of a game. These hands are GREAT to raise with or call a raise with because your 
opponents will never be able to put you on a hand if you hit. 
 
Here’s an example… 
 
Let’s say you’ve got good positioning in a $1-2 no limit cash game and you pick up: 
 
 
 
 
- 126 - 
 
 
 
Michelle is third to act and she throws out a pre-flop raise… making it $10 to play. The 
next two opponents fold. Nathan, who’s just to your right, calls. 
 
You decide to TAKE CONTROL of this hand and play your 10-9 aggressively in this 
situation. 
 
So you make it $25 to play. 
 
Why? 
 
The reason is simple. You want to represent a big hand like A-K or pocket Queens, Kings, 
or Aces. You’ve got good positioning and get to see what Michelle and Nathan to after 
the flop… so even if you don’t hit on the flop, you can still take this pot down if you sense 
weakness. 
 
The goes around and only Michelle calls your raise. You put her on a hand like A-Q, A-J, 
or a small pocket pair. If she had anything better she’d probably have gone over the top 
of you. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
You’ve basically flopped a monster hand. You’ve got an open-ended straight draw and a 
flush draw. And that’s the beauty of suited-connectors: Your opponent can never put 
you on the hand if you’re lucky enough to catch a good flop.  
 
When you DO hit with suited-connectors, you’re likely to rake a huge pot… or even 
double up. 
 
Michelle comes out firing and makes it $40 to play. She’s probably got the A-Q or A-J 
and wants to slow you down and find out where you’re at. You’ve got two moves now: 
 
 
 
 
- 127 - 
1. You can either go all-in on a semi-bluff. If Michelle calls you’ve still got lots of outs. If 
she folds you rake a huge pot. 
 
2. You can just call the bet and see a turn. 
 
You choose option number two. And you do that because you know what’s going to 
happen if you DO make your hand… you’ll be able to get all of Michelle’s money anyway, 
since she won’t put you on your 10-9 suited. 
 
What you’re actually HOPING for here is to hit the straight and NOT the flush, because 
the flush draw might scare Michelle. She’s smart and will play it more conservatively 
with three diamonds on the board. But she’s won’t know you have 10-9 so if the straight 
comes out you’re in good shape. 
 
No matter how the hand ends up playing out, this is how you play suited-connectors. 
Play them aggressively… because when they hit, you get paid. Big time. And if you don’t 
hit, just cut your losses. 
 
The key, as always, is to pay careful attention to your positioning. Play the hand more 
aggressively from a late position, because this affords you the opportunity to steal the 
pot even if you don’t hit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 128 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY SEMI-CONNECTORS 
 
Semi-connectors are kind of like suited-connectors… except they don’t exactly connect.  
 
Semi-connectors are hands like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Semi-connectors are SUITED and separated by ONE sequential card. 
 
If you’re an experienced Holdem player and you’re wondering why you’ve never heard of 
“semi-connectors” before… it’s because I made the term up. And the reason is because I 
think semi-connectors are an important hand… although no one ever talks about them. 
 
 
 
- 129 - 
 
When the timing, positioning, and chip stacks are right, I WILL play semi-connectors… 
aggressively. And the reason is because semi-connectors are HIDDEN HANDS. Your 
opponents can NEVER put you on them. 
 
Don’t discount semi-connectors as “crap hands”… they really aren’t. They have a ton of 
straight and flush possibilities. And when you make two pair or hit a monster like a 
straight flush with these hands, you WILL bust your opponents for every single one of 
their chips. 
 
Let me give you an real-life example that happened to me a few days ago when I got 
dealt semi-connectors… 
 
I was sitting at an 8-man $1-2 no limit table and sitting two seats to the right of the 
button, which is pretty good positioning. I picked up my two cards: 
 
 
 
 
A couple of my opponents limped in by calling the big blind and the action came around 
to me. I was chip leader, and I sensed weakness at the table with my good positioning, 
so I decided to play the hand aggressively… 
 
“Make it $15 to play”, I said, as I pushed in a few chips. 
 
Now, here was my thinking behind the bet: 
 
1. I don’t really care if my opponents call my bet or fold. If they fold, I steal the blinds, 
which is cool with me. If they call, I have a hidden hand. 
 
2. I have positioning… and if the two players to my left fold, I’ll be last to act after the 
flop. 
 
3. I’m in control of the hand. After the flop my opponents will likely check, regardless of 
what hits. That means I get to see a free turn card if I want… which is good with a 
hand like semi-connectors. 
 
 
 
 
- 130 - 
4. I can buy the pot by being in control with good positioning… as long as I sense 
weakness in my opponents. 
 
5. If I catch a lucky flop here, my opponents will never see it coming… and I’ll likely 
take someone’s entire chip stack. Even if I only hit a lucky flop one out of five times… 
or TEN times… that I play semi-connectors, it’s worth it. Because taking someone’s 
ENTIRE chip stack pays off in the long run! 
 
OK, anyway, back to the hand… after my pre-flop raise, both Brett and Rodney call. Both 
of them are relatively tight players, so I’m putting them on big cards or a small wired 
pair. If they had a hand like Aces, Kings, or Queens, they would have made a pre-flop 
raise. 
 
So there’s $48 in the pot now and I’ll be last to act after the flop. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Bingo. This is the favorable type of flop I was looking for. I’ve got an open-ended 
straight draw with a flush draw. But remember… I still technically have NOTHING at 
this point. I’m going to play the hand with caution… making sure I don’t lose my entire 
stack by missing my draws. 
 
Rodney and Brett both look back at their down-cards a second time… Rodney is first to 
act and he checks. Brett checks, too. 
 
Just as I had thought. Like I said, when you’ve got positioning and you make a pre-flop 
raise, your opponents will likely check to you after the flop, regardless of whether they 
hit or not. Because they anticipate another bet. 
 
So I decide to make a $45 bet after this nice flop. 
 
Once again, if no one calls, I rake in a nice pot. If anyone’s going to steal this thing, it’s 
going to be me. Period. 
 
And if someone DOES call, I’ve got lots of outs. If I hit just one of my outs my opponents 
will never see it coming… 
 
Rodney thinks awhile… and then announces a raise. 
 
 
 
- 131 - 
 
“Make it $100”, he says, splashing the pot.  
 
Brett folds and the action is to me. Of course, now I’m thinking, “Damn, Rodney must 
have a great hand.” I figured he would have made a pre-flop raise with a hand like A-K, 
but he was in an early position… just to the left of Nathan who was under the gun. It’s 
very possible that Rodney limped in with Big Slick. 
 
Luckily, as chip leader, I can afford to get in a jam like this. $55 more is still just a 
fraction of my stack. If I hit on the turn, I’m going to empty poor Rodney’s pockets… 
Hell, it might even be BETTER if he does have Big Slick since I’ll break him for sure if I 
make my hand. The implied odds are DEFINITELY in my favor… So I call. 
 
Now, I could have gone back over the top of Rodney in that position with a semi-bluff… 
and maybe taken the pot. But like I said, Rodney’s a tight player… and his check raise 
after the flop means he probably has a big hand. I don’t want to lose my entire stack to a 
missed draw… even though this particular draw has very good odds. (31.91% chance I 
make my hand on the turn, 32.61% chance I make it on the river, and 54.12% chance 
overall.) 
 
The turn card comes: 
 
 
 
YES. This gives me the nut straight. Now my biggest challenge is keeping my excitement 
hidden… because I know that this is one of those situations where I’m going to win a 
HUGE pot. 
 
Rodney is first to act. Since he raised me after my bet on the flop, I know he’ll come out 
firing. Sure enough, he bets $200… thinking there’s NO WAY the six of spades could 
have helped me. Had a diamond hit the board he MIGHT have been suspicious… but not 
the six of spades. Like I said, semi-connectors is a hidden hand. 
 
The rest is history. I take Rodney for every chip he has as I throw over my beautiful 10-8 
of diamonds. He couldn’t BELIEVE it. He shakes his head and walks away from the 
table. I hear him murmur, “A f’in 10-8… you’ve got to be kidding… a f’in 10-8.” 
 
 
 
 
- 132 - 
And I’m thinking, “Yea… and I will play it the same exact way next time… Except next 
time it might be a 5-3 of hearts.” 
 
 
 
 
- 133 - 
 
HOW TO PLAY HIDDEN HANDS 
 
A lot of poker players fall-into the trap of only playing monster starting hands. This is a 
logical strategy, except that everyone will begin folding as soon as a tight player makes a 
raise… which is why this style of play doesn’t hold up for winning long-term poker 
profits. 
 
In order to get action with monsters, you’ve got to be willing to raise the pot more 
frequently and dictate some action. The best way to do this is through HIDDEN 
HANDS… hands that pay BIG when you hit on the flop.  
 
These are hands like suited-connectors and semi-connectors… hands that your 
opponents will never put you on. The best way to play hidden hands is to make the 
occasional pre-flop raise with good positioning or call a small raise. When you hit a good 
flop, your opponents will be blindsided… which is why these hidden hands payoff over 
the long term. 
 
The secondary benefit, of course, is that you’re mixing it up and maintaining an 
unpredictable table image. When you make a raise with 7-5 of hearts and take down a 
pot, your opponents will think you’re crazy… and will begin giving you more action on 
your big hands. They’ll never know what you’re holding, and that’s EXACTLY what you 
want to happen. 
 
Of course, if you play a hidden hand, play it with caution. If you make a pre-flop raise, 
you’ve got to be willing to lose those chips. If the flop hits all high cards and not any of 
your suit, muck your hand immediately. Don’t continue to bluff at it without draws or 
outs.  
 
When you DO hit a draw, you can throw out a semi-bluff and take a stab at the pot… just 
don’t become too pot-committed or waste all your chips on a hand like this. 
 
When I get a hidden hand I want to play, I’ll usually make a small pre-flop raise in hopes 
of getting AS MANY CALLERS AS POSSIBLE. A great time to do this is when you’re on 
the button or maybe in the blinds and lots of players limp-in, hoping to see a cheap 
flop…  
 
 
 
- 134 - 
 
Even just doubling the blinds is a good play. What you’re doing is building up the chip 
count and setting up a nice pot. Your odds of winning the hand are not good, but if you 
DO catch a good flop, your odds of winning a TON of chips is very good. Low risk, high 
reward. 
 
Making a pre-flop raise with a hidden hand isn’t exactly your “textbook” poker play. But 
since you need to change gears and mix up your play anyway, you want to choose the 
best place to do it. A hidden hand like suited-connectors or semi-connectors is one of 
those places. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 135 - 
 
 
CHAPTER 32: THE SHORT STACK 
CHAPTER 33: MANIC 
CHAPTER 34: KEEPING YOUR OPPONENTS OFF BALANCE 
CHAPTER 35: BAD BEATS 
CHAPTER 36: CONFIDENCE 
CHAPTER 37: TILT 
CHAPTER 38: ADJUST TO YOUR TABLE 
CHAPTER 39: TABLE IMAGE 
CHAPTER 40: ANTICIPATION 
CHAPTER 41: PLAYING THE WALLET 
CHAPTER 42: PLAYING LONG HOURS 
 
 
 
- 136 - 
 
THE SHORT STACK 
 
Learning how to play as the short stack is a CRUCIAL SKILL when it comes to 
consistently winning at Texas Holdem. I can’t tell you how many times I’ve seen 
experienced players come back and WIN a game or tournament after they were short-
stacked. 
 
Because think about it… EVERYONE is going to fall for some “bad beats” or tough luck, 
and there’s no way to prevent it 100%. So when something like this happens and you get 
down on chips, you’ve got to know how to grind your way back into the game. 
 
There are two mistakes that most poker players make when it comes to playing short-
stacked. 
 
The first mistake… and more common one… is that they wait WAY TOO LONG to make 
a move.  
 
The second mistake is that they make their move either too early or miscalculate WHEN 
to make their move… often because they’re suffering from “Short Stack Tilt”. 
 
Let’s look at the first mistake in further detail… 
 
John buys into a tournament for $100 and receives 1,000 in chips to play with. The 
blinds start at 5-10 and progressively raise every twenty minutes. 
 
John grinds his way through three hours of solid poker and then finds himself at the 
final table with about 10,000 in chips. The blinds are now 150-300, which means John 
is doing quite fine. 
 
But before he knows it, he takes a couple bad beats and finds himself sitting on 5,000… 
then 4,000…. then 2,500 in chips. This all happens as the blinds continue to increase. 
 
More time goes by and now the blinds are at 300-600 and poor John is sitting on about 
1,000 in chips. He’s on the button… and looks down at his cards: 
 
 
 
 
- 137 - 
 
 
 
FINALLY, John decides to make a move.  
 
“I’m all-in”, he says… pushing his 1,000 into the pot in hopes of doubling up. 
 
But here’s the problem: John should have made his move a LONG TIME AGO… 
BEFORE he was so low on chips. He’s not going to scare anyone out of this hand with 
his measly 1,000. After all, that’s just 400 more than the big blind. 
 
Plus, everyone at the table is kind of “gunning” to eliminate John from the table. Not 
because they don’t like him… but just because it means they’re one step closer to a 
money finish. 
 
So five of his opponents pay the measly $400 extra. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Game over for John. His pocket eights don’t stand a chance against five callers with this 
flop. And when an eight doesn’t hit on the turn or river, John packs up and leaves the 
table. 
 
What John SHOULD HAVE DONE is made his move a long time ago. When you become 
short-stack, you’ve got to make your move while you’ve still got enough chips to 
intimidate other players. 
 
DON’T make the mistake of only waiting for pocket Aces or Kings before you move your 
chips into the middle… because you’ll just get blinded to death. You want to make a 
move and get either one or two callers… or ZERO callers. This way, you have a much 
better chance of doubling up or raking in some much-needed blinds. 
 
If your stack gets so low that everyone is going to call you when you move all-in, you’ve 
waited too long… and you’re done for the night. Even if you DO pick up a premium hand, 
having so many callers will likely lead to you getting run down. 
 
 
 
- 138 - 
 
The rule of thumb is this: 
 
Make your move when your stack gets to about 10x the big blind. 
 
If the blinds are 100-200 and you’ve got 2,000 in chips, it’s time to move all-in when 
you’ve got a hand. That way you’ll create heads-up action or rake in the blinds. 
 
OK, now let’s look at the SECOND MISTAKE players often make while playing short-
stacked… and that’s not knowing the RIGHT HAND to make a move with. 
 
I’ll move all-in with pocket pairs, an Ace, or two high cards. The KEY is POSITIONING. 
 
You don’t want to go all-in with A-2 from the first position. You want to go all-in with A-
2 if three opponents limp-in and you’re on the button… or a similar situation. 
 
When you make a move, you want to look for WEAKNESS and you want to have good 
positioning. That way you don’t run into a monster and you don’t get multiple callers. 
 
Also, be careful of “Short-Stack Tilt”. If you’ve got more than 10x the big blind… or even 
if you don’t… just don’t panic. Like I said before, I’ve seen on MANY occasions where the 
short-stacked player makes a comeback and wins.  
 
If you suffer a bad beat that sets you back considerably in chips, don’t go on tilt and 
make a dumb move with the rest of your chips. Remember what we’ve talked about here 
and stick to your game plan. 
 
Here’s a recap of how to play when you’re short-stacked: 
 
1. Make your move when you’re down to about 10x the big blind. 
 
2. Make your move with good positioning and when you sense weakness. 
 
3. Don’t be too picky… move all-in with pairs or two high cards or an Ace high. 
 
4. Don’t go on “Short-Stack Tilt” and do anything stupid. 
 
Follow these general principles and you’ll be prepared to double up your chip stack and 
get back in the game. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 139 - 
 
MANIC 
 
Remember this principle: PLAY THE PLAYER, NOT THE CARDS. 
 
Usually you can get a good read on a player after the first hour or so of watching him 
play. Then it’s not too hard to adjust your style of play to theirs. 
 
But what about the guy that takes it to the EXTREME? I’m talking about the “loose 
cannon” at the table… who’s willing to push his entire stack in the middle with nothing 
but rags. 
 
This type of player is known as a MANIC. 
 
Playing against a manic can be very frustrating… and can easily throw off your game. 
That’s why manics remain a part of poker… because they DO manage to win. Some of 
them win quite often. 
 
Once you learn HOW to play against a manic, though, you’ll be GLAD when they sit at 
your table… licking your chops because you’ll be prepared to put their chips in front of 
you. 
 
OK, so why exactly do a lot of players struggle when they play against manics? 
 
The answer is because often manics will get players “fired up” after they bluff. For 
example… let’s say a manic goes all-in and everyone folds. And then the manic shows his 
7-2 off-suit. And then the next hand the manic wildly bets pre-flop… only to fold at first 
site of the flop. This goes on… the manic will make strange moves… and the other 
players will think he’s a FISH. 
 
Of course, a manic will catch good cards just like anyone else… and this is when a 
regular player gets BURNT. The manic will go all-in… and someone will call, thinking 
that the manic is up to his old ways. And sure enough, the manic will throw over his 
pocket Rockets and double up. 
 
So how do you beat a manic? 
 
 
 
- 140 - 
 
The key is knowing the WEAKNESS of a manic. And what their “triggers” are. 
 
I’ve played with a LOT of manics in my time… and they have what I’d call a “warrior” 
personality. They like action… they like competition… they’re gutsy… and they 
ABSOLUTELY HATE the idea of someone outsmarting or intimidating them. 
 
So the secret to playing a manic is to STAY AWAY FROM HIM until the time is right and 
you get a good hand. It doesn’t have to be a spectacular hand… just a hand that you 
know is better than his. And then you must PUSH HIM AROUND. 
 
Challenge him. Challenge his ego. Check raise him. Check in the dark… only to raise his 
bet. In short, do everything you can to “set him off” into his manic mode. He’ll put you 
to a decision for all your chips… that’s his nature. And that’s when you take his chips. 
 
The important thing for you is TIMING. If you pick up pocket Rockets, that doesn’t 
mean it’s the time to go after the manic. There are still other players in the game… and 
you want to take their money too. You must wait for the time when it’s just you and the 
manic heads up and you’ve got him right where you want him. 
 
Hidden hands are what you want. Like when you have pocket pair and flop a set… or 
maybe when you complete a belly buster straight… and so on. 
 
The key is to push him around and capitalize on his weakness. For the manic, his ego is 
more important than his chips… so go after THAT and you’ll get his chips instead. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 141 - 
 
KEEPING YOUR OPPONENTS OFF BALANCE 
 
Listening to your “gut” while playing poker is often a valuable strategy. 
 
On the flip side, your opponents will ALSO have “gut feelings” about what YOUR cards 
are… and the strength of your hand. 
 
To combat this, it’s important to KEEP YOUR OPPONENTS OFF BALANCE. 
 
Two of my favorite ways to do this are “in the dark” moves and table talk. 
 
When you make a move “in the dark”, it means you make a check, bet, or raise 
WITHOUT knowing what the cards are… or what the person before you did. 
 
For instance, let’s say you’re in the small blind and limp-in. The big blind checks. Right 
when the dealer gets ready to show the flop you say, “I bet $5 in the dark”. Or, “I check 
in the dark”. And so on. 
 
It’s a strategy to confuse and frustrate your opponents. They start thinking, “Is he doing 
that because he has a monster? Or because he has rags? Doesn’t he care about his 
chips?” 
 
It also sets up a loose table image, if that’s what you’re going for. 
 
In my DVD course, you can see some real-life examples of me playing and successfully 
making moves “in the dark”. Go check it out. 
 
My other favorite way to frustrate and confuse and my opponents is through table talk… 
 
Now… I DON’T act like the asshole at the table and annoy everyone. Instead, I try to be 
fun and relaxed to play with (in cash games). I want everyone to approach me and want 
to play with me LATER— even though I took their money. 
 
The way to use table talk without sounding arrogant is to simply say outrageous things 
about the pot and hand. 
 
 
 
- 142 - 
 
For example… let’s say you’re opponent has pocket nines, and you’re holding 7-6 suited. 
The flop hits: A-K-Q. This is a situation where I might use some table talk… in order to 
get a read on my opponent AND keep him guessing. 
 
I’ll say something like, “Man, I REALLY hope that you go all-in right here so I can 
double up…”. 
 
As soon as my opponent hesitates, that’s when I know I’ve got him. If he had the nuts—
or even a great hand—he would have said, “Ok, all-in.” But because he HESITATED, I 
know he doesn’t have the straight or the Ace. If he checks to me, I’m going to bet him 
out of this pot. 
 
Now I’ve got the psychological edge. He looks at me… thinking about my behavior and 
trying to put me on a hand. Instead of giving him one of those stone cold stares, I just 
smile and look him in the eye. I’m not emotionally attached to this hand… I know he’s 
got my 7-6 beat.  But if he checks, I’ve got him. 
 
Sure enough, he gives it up and mucks it. And I win… all with the help of a little 
harmless table talk. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
- 143 - 
 
BAD BEATS 
 
Bad beats are a part of poker. PERIOD. 
 
Even that “one in a million” scenario that you NEVER thought could happen… WILL 
HAPPEN… as long as you play enough poker. 
 
The thing about bad beats is that you can’t let it get you down. I see so many beginning 
card players whine and complain about their bad beats… always blaming their losses on 
the “luck” of their opponents, rather than taking responsibility. 
 
If you’ve ever thought, “Boy, I just seem to get more bad beats than anyone else,” then I 
challenge you to quit complaining and start changing your style of play. 
 
The fact of the matter is, you CAN take steps to help prevent bad beats. The most 
effective strategy to adopt a tight-aggressive style of play. When you get a big hand, bet it. 
Don’t let five limpers see a flop and outdraw your Aces with their 7-2 offsuit. Force out 
the bad hands and narrow down the field. 
 
In addition to that, don’t confuse “bad beats” with “bad plays”. If you’ve got pocket 
Queens with the board reading A-A-A-K-Q and your opponent beats your all-in with a 
King, that is NOT a bad beat. You were just too much of a sucker to play the hand right. 
 
OK, so that’s my rant about bad beats. Don’t let them get you down… just move on and 
stick to your game. 
 
With that being said, I can’t possibly publish a poker book without telling my OWN bad 
beat story… I’ve seen more than I can remember, but this one sticks out as the WORST. 
 
My best friend and I went to a local tournament. We’re friends away from the poker 
table, but the fiercest competitors as soon as the cards are dealt.  
 
The tournament is good to both of us… and we make it heads-up at the final table. 
 
 
 
 
- 144 - 
Winning the money isn’t nearly as important to me as getting bragging rights on my 
buddy for the next year to come. I’ve GOT to win this. 
 
I look down at my cards: 
 
 
 
 
Nice.  
 
I make a pre-flop raise. My friend goes over the top of me. I quickly push my entire stack 
into the middle… and he calls my all-in with no hesitation. 
 
He flips over his cards: 
 
 
 
 
All right… so all I need to do is dodge an Ace. It’s amazing that he had Big Slick suited 
against my Cowboys in a HEADS-UP match. But I’m feeling good about my chances. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Wow. Now I’ve got the boat… I still just need to dodge an Ace. 
 
The turn card comes: 
 
 
 
 
- 145 - 
 
 
What in the hell is going on!? My twos over Kings just turned into Kings over twos. 
Meanwhile, my friend looks like he’s just seen a ghost. Now an Ace won’t help him… 
because then he’d have twos over Aces full, which isn’t as good as my Kings over twos.  
 
Right now my friend has a full house: twos over Kings. I also have a full house: Kings 
over twos. 
 
Confused yet? Just wait. It gets better… 
 
The river hits: 
 
 
 
This final two gives my buddy QUADS with an Ace Kicker. It gives me quads with just a 
KING kicker. And that means he wins the hand! 
 
I was in total disbelief. 
 
And of course, my friend got bragging rights as he won the tournament. 
 
OK, that’s my bad beat story. Fun’s over… let’s get back to some poker strategy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 146 - 
 
CONFIDENCE 
 
When you play poker on a consistent basis, you’ll begin to notice the difference between 
ARROGANCE and CONFIDENCE… as well as the distinction between MEEKNESS and 
PATIENCE. 
 
To say these types of distinctions are important would be an understatement. Especially 
in tournament play. 
 
The poker world has a lion’s share of big egos, hotheads, and cocky players. I guess 
that’s a result of it being a predominately testosterone-driven sport… along with the fact 
that poker is usually considered “gambling”. 
 
When you play poker, however, you should be EXTRA careful of the guy who possesses 
a CALM CONFIDENCE. This is the quickest way to spot a shark. 
 
I can’t really describe what “calm confidence” LOOKS like. You just kind of know it 
when you see it. The best real life example I can give you is Phil Ivey. He radiates calm 
confidence. I’m betting that before he became a household name, every card room 
where he went people said, “Hey, who’s THAT guy?” 
 
The reason this discussion is important is not only because you want to be careful of 
these sharks. The primary reason is because you want to learn to POSSESS that calm 
confidence. It’s something you can train yourself to do.  
 
Even if you’re a terrible card player, if you radiate CALM CONFIDENCE you will gain 
the instant respect of your opponents in the room. They won’t fold to you like you were 
Gus Hansen or anything… but they WILL respect you. I think a lot of it is actually at a 
subconscious level. 
 
You might think I’m crazy. But I want you to think about it carefully. Think about the 
“sharks” that you know. Think about the players you see consistently win in your local 
hometown games… 
 
What qualities and characteristics do they possess? 
 
 
 
- 147 - 
 
When I buy-in to a tournament or walk into a casino, I give myself a little “prep talk” 
before I go in. I take a deep breath, let go of any stresses or anxieties on my mind, and 
tell myself, “This is my house.”  
 
“This is my house.”  
 
“This is my house.” 
 
I visualize myself taking every chip in that room… cleaning the pockets of my 
opponents… and playing the best Texas Holdem poker of my life. 
 
This routine works for me. I recommend that you try it… or some type of variation. Do 
your best to achieve that “calm confidence”… like you somehow KNOW that you’re going 
to win, before the game even starts.  
 
 
 
- 148 - 
 
TILT 
 
Everyone knows about TILT. Tilt is that undeniable emotion… or set of emotions… that 
floods your brain and causes you to lose chips. It sets you “out of whack”… blinding your 
logic… causing you to behave in ways you normally wouldn’t. 
 
The reasons for tilt are numerous… but it’s usually the result of a big hand where you 
lost. And most particularly, a hand that seemed to “defy the odds”. That’s why you see so 
many players go on tilt after getting “rivered”. They think they have the pot won… in the 
bag… and then BOOM it gets reversed. 
 
Getting your flush busted by a full house, getting Aces run down by A-7, or watching 
your opponent hit a miracle inside straight draw are examples of scenarios that might 
put you on TILT. 
 
When tilt occurs, logic goes out the window… depending on the “degree” of tilt. If you 
really think about it, tilt is happening ALL THE TIME in some form or another. Poker is 
a game of odds, but cards will fall “against the odds” all the time… along with other types 
of bad beats, trash talk, and other aggravations.  
 
I call these “tiny tilts”… when a player is mildly affected in a “tilt-like” way… but not 
necessarily on full blown TILT. 
 
It all boils down to the core principle that most players play REACTIVE poker, rather 
than PROACTIVE poker. Plain and simple. 
 
When you play proactive poker, you stick to YOUR game plan, YOUR strategies, and 
YOUR style of play. Obviously you play according to the players at the table, but you 
stick with proven, logical, step-by-step methods for consistent winnings. 
 
Amateurs and poor poker players… and even “regular” poker players play the tides of 
emotions and “streaks” around them. That’s why sometimes they’ll have a GREAT night 
at the table… other times they’ll have a TERRIBLE night at the table… and so on. 
 
This is also just a component of the “gambler’s personality”. The gambler is someone 
 
 
 
- 149 - 
who lives the upswings and downswings… back and forth… and those swings are 
actually what make it FUN for him. 
 
I’m a rounder… a grinder… whatever you want to call it. That doesn’t mean I don’t enjoy 
poker. Hell, I love it more than just about anything else (notice I said JUST ABOUT). 
And that doesn’t mean I don’t have the occasional upswing and downswing… but I’ll tell 
you, my swings don’t “even out”. I have a lot more upswings because of my approach to 
the game. 
 
The point is, if you want to be a strong poker player who CONSISTENTLY makes profits 
at the table, you need to keep your emotions in check. If you take a bad beat, you’ve got 
to let it bounce off. You can’t let it affect your game. 
 
When I take a bad beat, I do one of these three things… or a combination of them… in 
order to avoid tilt and stick to my strategy: 
 
1. I remind myself that it’s just all part of the game. Because it really is. You must 
EXPECT the UNEXPECTED.  
 
2. I don’t play for a few hands… I’ll just sit out, relax, take a few breathers, and watch. 
I’ll use this time to take mental notes on players, strategize the rest of the game, and 
visualize myself regaining control and winning. 
 
3. I’ll leave the table. This is my favorite thing to do actually, but it’s not always possible. 
But if I’m at a casino or card room where I can leave the table for an hour or so, I’ll 
do that. I’ll go grab some dinner and take a break. 
 
If you stay at the table… and if you feel tilt upon you… remember what tilt REALLY IS. 
Tilt is simply your brain’s reactions to the event that just happened. 
 
When you lose, say, 75% of your chip stack, your brain has a hard time handling it. 
You’ve been going steady for hours… slowly building up that stack and earning it… and 
then all of the sudden it’s down to 25%. 
 
This type of bad beat “re-frames” your brain. It’s simple psychology. You don’t look at 
chip amounts the same. Where you’d normally make a small raise with A-J with middle 
positioning… now you’re going all-in.  
 
Why? Because you want your chips back! You want to get back to where you were before. 
 
Of course, that’s not how it works, and you’re only going to lose the remainder of your 
stack if you play this way. 
 
 
 
- 150 - 
 
I like to use the stock market as an analogy. When a stock goes from $100 to $50, it’s 
lost 50% of its value. An amateur investor who loses 50% of his money will suddenly go 
on “tilt” and try to get that money back.  
 
So if the investor had $2,000 in the stock and now has $1,000, he’ll try to get back to 
$2,000 again by doing something “drastic”. Obviously, this is a bad idea. 
 
For a stock to go from $50 to $100, it must DOUBLE, or go up 200%. This figure is a lot 
different than 50%. 
 
And poker is exactly the same way… it’s EASY to lose a lot FAST… but it takes time, 
patience, and hard work to build it back up. Losing 50% is much easier than winning 
200%… that’s just how it is.  
 
So don’t let tilt affect you. The surest way to become “tilt-proof” is to become a more 
experienced poker player… where you’ve seen so many CRAZY things happen that 
you’re not surprised by anything. Until then, just be sure to follow one of the three 
approaches I outlined above and you’ll be in good shape. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 151 - 
 
ADJUST TO YOUR TABLE 
 
While it’s important to stick with your game plan and poker strategy, you can’t become 
too restrictive about your style of play at any given table. Because every table is 
different… and the true Holdem rounder will adapt accordingly to the game he’s in. 
 
For instance, in some games a 3x big blind pre-flop raise is going to scare everyone out… 
time after time. But then in other games that kind of raise is going to get LAUGHED at. 
 
It all depends on the players and style at the table. You must adjust YOUR play 
accordingly in order to consistently drag in poker profits. 
 
I went to the riverboat recently and sat down at the $1-2 no limit game at 7 P.M. The 
table was very tight. I was able to dictate the action and make pre-flop raises with a wide 
variety of hands. I stole the blinds consistently and walked all over my opponents. 
 
I’d raise the pot with hands like suited-connectors… and when an opponent finally DID 
catch a hand I’d bust them with my hidden hand. I also bluffed at pots from time to time 
when I sensed weakness… only to show my cards at the end to get everyone riled up. 
 
I was getting action with my big hands, bluffing at all the right times and stealing pots, 
and in general playing great poker. 
 
At 1 A.M. I was moved to a table on the other side of the room. I sat down just to the 
right of the button and watched the action for awhile before jumping in to see a pot.  
 
Immediately I knew that this table was going to be a LOT different than the last one. The 
man to my left, who looked like he had about a dozen too many beers made a pre-flop 
raise of $50 into a $6 pot. 
 
But even more surprising than that was that three players called this pre-flop raise. At 
the previous table I didn’t see a single pre-flop raise of more than $30 get called. And I 
had been there for six hours. 
 
 
 
 
- 152 - 
I watched this hand particular hand play out… as the guy sitting across from me took 
down the pot with a K-9 off-suit. That’s right. He had called a $50 pre-flop raise with K-
9 off-suit. And the guy who had made the ORIGINAL raise was holding Q-8. 
 
I was absolutely amazed. 
 
While this type of table is uncommon, it DOES exist. I’ll find myself in these types of 
games every once in awhile… and when I do, I must COMPLETELY adjust my strategy. I 
can’t bully this table around like I did at the last one. In fact, I won’t even bluff once at a 
table like this. I won’t go for stealing blinds. I won’t raise with suited-connectors. 
Everything is different here. 
 
My strategy at a loose, manic-like table like this one is to try to see a cheap flop with just 
about any type of hand. If I can limp-in with a 5-4 of hearts for $2, I’ll do it. I’ll also try 
to see a cheap flop with any wired pair… because if I hit I know I’m getting paid. 
 
Just about any hand where I have a chance at a “lucky” flop is good at this type of table. 
 
As for my big hands… I’ll only make a pre-flop raise with monsters like Aces, Kings, 
Queens, an Big Slick. And when I raise, it’s going to be a MASSIVE raise. I can afford to 
at this type of table because these loose cannons don’t care if I’ve been playing tight or 
not. They’ll still call my pre-flop raise when I have a hand because they just want the 
opportunity to bust me. But that’s also why I must be very CAUTIOUS with my big 
hands. 
 
After about an hour, I picked up pocket Aces. I was second to act before the flop and 
knew I needed to make a raise that would only get one or two callers. At the previous 
(tight) table I would have made it $15 or $20 to play… but not here. 
 
“$75 to play”, I announce… my first pre-flop raise at this table. I was confident I’d get 
action, but I also knew that $75 was large enough that I wouldn’t get TOO much action. 
 
The guy on the button was the only one to call. The flop hit: 
 
 
 
 
 
I was first to act. I had sat down at this table with about $300 and after my pre-flop 
raise I had about $200 in front of me. So I pushed in the rest of my stack… 
 
 
 
- 153 - 
 
“I’m all-in.” 
 
I make this bet because I can’t afford to let my opponent chase me down. These guys will 
chase a gut-shot draw if it’s for less than $50. So I have to play big and force my 
opponent to fold if he’s on a draw. 
 
I’m completely satisfied with the $75 I got from him before the flop… no need to get 
greedy. Greed is what leads to bad beats. 
 
So as you can see, I really had to adjust my game between these two tables. Of course, 
each of these situations was a little bit on the “extreme” side… in your average night of 
cards, the adjustments to your playing strategy won’t have to be as drastic. 
 
If you develop a consistent system of winning poker, it will become much easier for you 
to adjust to your table. Think of your adjustments like volume knobs, not switches. 
 
You must change up the DEGREE of your raises, your starting hands, your bluffs, and so 
on. Don’t just turn things “on or off”. Your overall strategy will always be the same, and 
that is to WIN. Period.  
  
 
 
 
 
- 154 - 
 
TABLE IMAGE 
 
Table image is another crucial part of winning Texas Holdem strategy. Everyone has a 
table image, whether they know it or not. The key is knowing it and TAKING CONTROL 
of it by intentionally molding and shaping the image over the course of the game. 
 
Your goal should be to have a table image that creates UNPREDICTABILITY. If your 
opponents know what you’re holding, the cards don’t matter one bit. Don’t be 
predictable. 
 
One way to build table image is to ADVERTISE. This is like when you play a “crazy” 
hand out of nowhere… something like 7-2 offsuit and then show it. Just to mix things up 
and keep your opponents guessing. 
 
I usually don’t need to play crazy hands too often, because I’d rather carefully surprise 
my opponents based on positioning, sensing weakness, and other factors like chip count. 
 
When you play with the same players night after night, mixing up your play becomes far 
more important, since your buddies will start to figure you out over time. And of course, 
you’ll be able to figure THEM out and hopefully take their money consistently. 
 
Let me show you an example of why table image is so important… 
 
I was at the Horseshoe Casino in Vegas recently after a big tournament. I had to leave to 
the airport soon and had a few hours to kill… so of course, I decided to play some poker. 
 
I bought in for $100. I didn’t know anyone at the table. The first hour passed and I 
hadn’t seen a decent hand… I just kept folding over and over again. I KNEW that I was 
building a table image as a TIGHT player.  
 
Finally, while on the button, I looked down to see: 
 
 
 
 
- 155 - 
 
 
 
A few players limped in and I sensed some major weakness. Not exactly a monster hand, 
but I decided to make a move. 
 
“$20 to play”, I said, throwing out my first pre-flop raise of the game. 
 
I figured my opponents would fold… putting me on something like Aces or Kings. Even I 
did get a caller and lost a bit on the hand, I didn’t care much. I would show my bluff and 
it would set me up for action in future hands. 
 
But no one called. Everyone immediately folded with no hesitation, just as I thought 
they would. Of course, I threw over my monster 4-3 for everyone to see… and in my 
usual fashion I said, “C’mon guys, you didn’t have my four-high beat?” 
 
The point of this wasn’t to steal blinds. The point was to build table image… my 
opponents are going to be puzzled about me now. I hadn’t bluffed in an hour, why now? 
Did I just suddenly decide to steal some blinds? Or am I crazy with my suited-
connectors? 
 
Unpredictability. That’s the name of the game. 
 
Just a few hands later I picked up a REAL hand. This was the most ideal situation 
possible because it came shortly after my suited-connectors bluff. I looked down to see: 
 
 
 
 
Gotta love Cowboys.  
 
I made a large pre-flop raise and got two callers. Whereas before I didn’t get action with 
my 4-3 (and won the hand), now I was getting major action with Kings. I ended up 
doubling up against someone with pocket Jacks. 
 
 
 
 
- 156 - 
I think I ended up showing one more bluff in this particular game. I didn’t bluff much, 
simply because of the way the table saw me. I was watching myself through THEIR 
eyes… reading their thoughts. 
 
Finally I had to leave the game and grab my flight back to St. Louis. I cashed out for 
$425… not shabby for a few hours of play. It paid for a first-class upgrade on my plane 
ticket. 
 
Remember… your table image will dictate how others will bet against you. It will 
determine if they respect your bets, give you action on your big hands, come over the top 
of you, and so on. CONTROL your table image… don’t just let it naturally form. And 
when you’re involved in a big hand, be sure to think about how your OPPONENTS saw 
you in that hand… what they took note of… and how they’ll react to you in the future. 
Change gears, send mixed signals, and keep them guessing.   
 
 
 
 
- 157 - 
 
ANTICIPATION 
 
One of the keys to becoming a strong poker player is ANTICIPATION. 
 
The reason anticipation is so important is because it helps you MINIMIZE YOUR 
LOSSES and MAXIMIZE YOUR GAINS… the “mantra” for any serious rounder. Here’s 
what I mean: 
 
Let’s say you’re on the button and you pick up your cards: 
 
 
 
 
The blinds are $5-10 and Aaron (a very tight player) makes it $75 to play. Everyone at 
the table folds and the action is to you. 
 
This is the best hand you’ve seen all night long… so you call the bet without much 
hesitation. I mean, it’s a strong starting hand, you’re on the button… this is a good call 
right? 
 
Wrong. This is mistake number one. Aaron is a tight player who only raises pre-flop 
with monster hands. Even if he’s holding something like Queens and you can bust him if 
an Ace hits, what will you DO when the Ace hits? How will you know if you’ve got him 
beat? 
 
You must ANTICIPATE what’s about to come from Aaron. When the flop hits, he’s 
GOING to come out firing…  
 
OK, so anyway, the flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
- 158 - 
 
 
 
 
Aaron bets $150, with very little hesitation. 
 
Now what? You’ve got to put him on something like A-K, A-Q, A-A, K-K, or Q-Q. These 
are the only hands Aaron would be playing so aggressively with. 
 
You think for awhile… and you KNOW deep down that you should fold. But I mean hell, 
you’ve hit top pair with a Jack kicker. How can you fold? 
 
So you decide to see another card and call the $150 bet. 
 
Obviously, that’s your second mistake. You were only thinking about the $150 bet… and 
not what was about to happen on the TURN card. Because no matter what, you have to 
figure Aaron is going to fire again… especially now that he’s sensed weakness in you. 
 
The ONLY CARD in the deck that can change things for you is another Jack. Looking at 
the odds, there’s three Jacks left in the deck and forty-seven unknown cards… giving you 
6.38% chance of getting your Jack on the turn. Or roughly 14:1 against you. The only 
way you should be calling this bet is if there was $2,100 already in the pot. But there’s 
not. There’s about $315.  
 
The turn card comes… and sure enough, Aaron comes out firing $500 bet. And to make 
a long story short, you lose a huge pot… either by finally folding, or by watching Aaron 
turn over his Big Slick. 
 
This type of situation happens to even the strongest players. The problem isn’t that 
they’re chasing anything… the problem is that they don’t ANTICIPATE carefully enough 
what’s going to happen after the next card. Think about what you’ll do for each different 
scenario… and more importantly, anticipate what your OPPONENT will do for each 
different scenario. 
 
In the example above, the right move would have been to muck the A-J before the flop. I 
know it’s not easy, but that’s the right move because you had to anticipate Aaron was 
going to make you pay every step of the way. Remember… MINIMIZE YOUR LOSSES, 
MAXIMIZE YOUR GAINS. 
 
 
 
 
- 159 - 
 
PLAYING THE WALLET 
 
You know by now that you must PLAY THE PLAYER, NOT THE CARDS. But playing 
the player doesn’t just mean adopting to his particular style… it also means knowing 
how much of a “player” the guy really is. 
 
This chapter is about knowing how much money someone has that’s NOT on the table.  
 
It’s usually pretty obvious… even just by outward appearances and demeanor. If you’re 
like me, you’ll often play with the same guys every week… and by then it becomes VERY 
CLEAR who has money to spend and who’s trying to pay for rent with their poker 
winnings. 
 
Most players don’t even THINK about their opponents’ bankrolls. But it’s crucial… 
especially when you start to move up in stakes. Here’s what I mean… 
 
Let’s say you’ve been playing for a solid eight hours in a $2-4 no limit game and you’re 
doing fairly well… up to about $1000 from a $200 investment. You look down to see: 
 
 
 
 
You’re in the small blind… and bells start going off in your head with this monster hand.  
 
But then all of the sudden the action comes to a halt as the front door opens. And in 
walks Jack, who often stops by for a few hours every time there’s a game going. He walks 
up slowly to the table… somewhat meekly. 
 
“What’s up guys, what’s the buy-in tonight?” he says, digging into his wallet. 
 
“$100”, Brad says, who’s the host for the game. 
 
 
 
 
- 160 - 
“Man, I’ve only got $90… Oh well, I’ll just watch for awhile” 
 
“Pull up a chair… I’ll loan you the other $10. We’re not going to let you just sit and 
watch”, Brad replies. 
 
So Jack pulls up a chair and buys-in. This looks like a kind gesture from Brad, but I’m 
thinking to myself that he probably loaned him the $10 because he knows that we’re 
going to win Jack’s $90. 
 
Anyway, I raise the pot to $40 with my Big Slick suited and end up raking in a lot of 
blinds. But my mind is on Jack… thinking about my game strategy for him. The $90 he’s 
got in this game is the last $90 in his wallet. That’s DEFINITELY going to affect his play 
in subtle ways… and some not-so-subtle ways. 
 
A few hands pass and I’m just to right of the button and look down to see: 
 
 
 
 
Jack and a couple guys limp-in and the action is to me.  
 
“Make it $20 to play”, I say as I raise the pot with my suited-connectors. 
 
Jack is the only caller. After he calls my raise, he has just $56 left. And if he loses THAT, 
he’s done for the night… he’ll go home and watch ESPN or whatever. But he won’t reach 
back into his pocket to buy-in or anything. 
 
And that’s what causes Jack to play a different game. A game that he probably wouldn’t 
play if he $500 in his pocket. 
 
And it’s not only Jack. There are a few other players at the table who are also playing on 
their last dollars… or gambling with their paychecks from the week.  
 
This is something you MUST pay attention to. Watch when a player re-buys… this is a 
perfect time to gauge if a player is loaded or broke. Someone with lots of money won’t 
hesitate one bit when re-buying… he’ll just reach into his pocket and break out the cash. 
Someone who DOESN’T have much money will say he’s got to go to the ATM… but he’s 
going to “wait awhile first to think about it”, or something like that. 
 
 
 
 
- 161 - 
You never want to be at the end of your bankroll at the table. It puts you at a severe 
disadvantage, just as Jack is here. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
No clubs, which means I don’t have a flush draw or anything. All I have is an inside 
straight draw. I’m guessing Jack has a pair since he called my pre-flop raise. 
 
The action is to Jack and he checks. I don’t mess around.  
 
“I’ll put you all-in”, I say as I push in a massive stack of chips that easily covers him ten 
times over. 
 
I know I can make a bet like this against someone like Jack… who’s playing on his last 
few dollars… because the only way he’s going to call this bet is if he has a straight or trips. 
If he doesn’t have a monster, he’ll fold.  
 
Sure, he might have been SLOW PLAYING a big hand, but that’s a risk I’m willing to 
take. The odds of him having a monster are small, and I’m playing the odds.  
 
Sure enough, he folds. 
 
On the other hand, if I was playing against my friend Darren in this same situation, I 
DEFINITELY wouldn’t have gotten away with this. Even if he was short-stacked, he’s 
got another six Benjamin Franklin’s in his wallet… and he will not be bullied around 
with this type of flop. 
 
So factor in your opponent’s WALLET SIZE into your game strategy. The size of their 
bankroll will dictate much of their playing style. Bully the weak, beware of the strong. 
 
 
 
 
- 162 - 
 
PLAYING LONG HOURS 
 
As your poker career advances, you’ll find yourself playing increasingly long hours at the 
poker table. Staying focused and remaining comfortable becomes just as challenging as 
the game itself. 
 
Playing Texas Holdem for eight hours… or often times much MORE… can definitely be a 
physical and mental drain. So prepare your body for it, just as you would any other sport. 
 
If you don’t feel good, you won’t play good. That’s all there is to it. 
 
Personally, I prefer lots of exercise as a way to prepare myself for long hours at the card 
table. Getting that endorphin kick from a good run or session of weight lifting will 
increase my mental acuity as well as keep my body comfortable at the table. 
 
Exercise also serves as my “meditation” session. I go over my game plan and overall 
strategy as I workout. This is very energizing… and I’m usually pumped up and 
chomping at the bit when I finally get to sit down at the table. 
 
In fact, I honestly believe exercising before I play poker is a big part of the competitive 
edge I have at the table. Because most poker players don’t have the physical strength to 
sit at a table for long hours… they think, “Hey, it’s just SITTING.” But it’s much more 
than that. 
 
A career in poker itself makes it EXTREMELY difficult to maintain your health. Between 
the alcohol, cigars, and buffets, the entire lifestyle is certainly not conducive to proper 
nutrition and exercise… 
 
Of course, it CAN be done. You’ve just got to discipline yourself… the same way you do 
at the table.  
 
Don’t get me wrong… I’m not trying to be your personal trainer here. I just honestly 
believe that health is a big part of being able to play long hours at the table… and playing 
long hours is crucial to long-term poker profits. 
 
 
 
 
- 163 - 
There are other things I’ll also do in preparation for those long poker sessions… Here 
are a few of them: 
 
1. Never start a game on an empty stomach. 
  
2. Take breaks during the game. I usually try to at least STAND UP every thirty minutes 
or so to keep the blood flowing. 
 
3. Breathe. I know it sounds silly, but a few deep breaths can keep your brain more 
alert. 
 
4. Chew or munch on something. I prefer sunflower seeds. 
 
5. Drink caffeine instead of alcohol. Alcohol is a downer, caffeine is an upper. Think 
about it. 
 
6. Grab a bit to eat during the game. Eating several small meals during the day instead 
of a few big meals will keep your metabolism pumping and will make you much more 
comfortable while you sit on your ass grinding it out. 
 
Find an approach that works for you and stick to it. Mastering this aspect of poker will 
automatically give you an edge over your opponents. 
 
 
 
 
- 164 - 
 
 
CHAPTER 43: STOP OPPONENTS FROM CHASING 
CHAPTER 44: HOW TO SPOT THE SUCKER 
CHAPTER 45: BLUFFING 
CHAPTER 46: BUYING A FREE CARD 
CHAPTER 47: RAISING WITH A DRAW 
CHAPTER 48: SEMI-BLUFF 
CHAPTER 49: LEAVE YOURSELF OUTS 
CHAPTER 50: THE FIVE PLAYER TYPES AND HOW TO BEAT THEM 
 
 
 
- 165 - 
 
STOP OPPONENTS FROM CHASING 
 
You’ve got to know when your opponents are chasing that ONE CARD that’s going to 
complete their hand. This is why betting is so important. You’ve got to bet your 
opponents OUT when you feel you’ve got the best hand. 
 
But how much should you bet in order to get your opponents to fold? 
 
That, my friend, is the million dollar question. There’s no easy answer. The answer 
really depends on quite a number of considerations… like: 
 
• Size of the pot 
• How many cards are left  
• Your table image 
 
If they think you’re just buying the pot, it’s going to be tougher to bet them out when 
they’re on the draw and you’ve got top pair. 
 
The first thing you need to pay attention to are the suits on the board when you’re 
judging the size of your bet. If there is two of the same suit on the flop, someone is likely 
going after the flush. 
 
The second thing you want to watch out for is the possible straight. It’s important that 
you analyze every flop, turn, and river card to see the straight… BEFORE it actually 
arrives. Keep in mind that just about everyone loves to play suited-connectors… and 
even call pre-flop raises with them. 
 
Here’s an example of a hand I played a few days ago where I had to bet out the chasers… 
 
I was in a local $200 buy-in tournament where I received 1,000 in chips to start. I was 
playing very good poker through the first few hours and looked down at my hand: 
 
 
 
 
- 166 - 
 
 
 
I was second to act. Blinds were 25-50 and I was sitting on about 3,000 chips. I decided 
to limp-in, knowing someone behind me was likely to raise the pot. My goal was to 
sneak in by calling a small raise and hopefully spike a four on the flop. 
 
Just as I had expected, Brad (who was to my right) made it 200 to play. The button and 
the big blind both called and the action came to me. 
 
This was the perfect situation for my fours. I got to see a cheap flop and no one would 
have a clue as to what I was holding. The flop hit: 
 
 
 
 
 
The big blind is first to act. He checks. 
 
Now, I would love to also check here. After all, I’m fairly sure Brad will throw out 
another bet… and I’m confident I have the best hand. But I can’t take that chance. 
There’s a straight and flush draw potential on the board. I simply CANNOT afford to let 
my opponents see a free turn card that could complete a draw. 
 
So I throw out a bet of 1,000 with my trips. This is about half of my opponents’ stacks. 
They are likely to fold if they’re on the draw… the price is simply too high. 
 
Each of them fold, as expected, and I rake in a nice pot. 
 
The key to this win was that I DIDN’T mess around one bit. The size of the pot was 
already large enough and I didn’t want to see another card. There were too many draws 
on the board… the flush draw along with two different open-ended straight draws, 
seeing as someone could easily have 9-8 or K-Q.  
 
If I had let everyone see another card, someone was likely to hit. Remember… if you can 
take a hand down, do it. It’s better to be SAFE with trips, rather than GREEDY. Being 
greedy is what leads to “bad beats”. 
 
 
 
- 167 - 
 
HOW TO SPOT THE SUCKER 
 
Don’t be the sucker at the table. 
 
Instead, SPOT the sucker… and do it FIRST. 
 
A “sucker” is a poker player who will lose his chips… quickly… and has no right being in 
the game. 
 
Of course, we LOVE suckers… because they’re easy money. (A lot of people call them 
“fish”.) 
 
Anyway, you can gain early chip leads and win a lot more money simply by GOING 
AFTER the sucker at the table. Capitalize on his weaknesses. And try to be the first 
player to go heads-up with him. 
 
There are a lot of ways to spot the sucker in a card game… Primarily, you want to look 
for any signs that a bad player would exhibit.  Here are five of the top characteristics I’ve 
noticed… besides the obvious stuff, like someone who doesn’t know the rules.  
 
Cockiness – A player who is very cocky is usually new to the game. Someone who has 
played for awhile has come across many fierce and legitimate competitors… and has 
been humbled by the process. 
 
If someone is overly confident in his skills, consider it an attitude that is just trying to 
over-compensate for the TRUTH. 
 
Too Talkative – I love table talk… and I love to use it… but only in MODERATION. And 
I only use it strategically to set up a specific table image for myself and to possibly 
intimidate some of my opponents. 
 
For the most part, the “loud mouth” at the table is usually bound for defeat. Loud 
players usually make enemies at the table (because they’re annoying)… and any good 
player knows that making enemies is not a good idea. 
 
 
 
 
- 168 - 
Playing Every Hand – If you notice a player who seems to be involved in virtually every 
hand, you can probably consider them a sucker. 
 
Experienced Holdem players know to only play good starting hands. The top sign of an 
amateur is someone who plays too many hands. 
 
When encountering this type of sucker, you can usually siphon some chips your way by 
bullying them and applying pressure. But be cautious— bad players are hard to bluff.  
 
In this particular case, you want to throw out some pot-builders and then go heads-up 
with the sucker when you’re confident you have the best hand. 
 
Keep him pot-committed… then bet big on the river. If he calls, great. If not, you still 
just won a nice pot. When you’re done with this process, repeat it as soon as you can 
again! 
 
Overacting – I can swear that some players aren’t interested in poker… and are only 
trying out for their soon-to-be-over acting career. 
 
Anyone who brings a lot of emotion and drama to the behavior is a fish. Often they’ll 
have a losing attitude to begin with. 
 
It’s easy to whip up on these opponents. Get them pot-committed when they’re chasing 
a hand— that’s usually the quickest way to take all their chips. 
 
Showboating – This is similar to the cocky player. Someone who showboats hasn’t been 
playing poker for very long. Or if he has, he’s not very good. 
 
Showboating is simply a behavior designed to cover up the player’s insecurities about 
NOT having enough skill. These are the types of guys who bluff huge pots with 7-2 
offsuit… because of the ego-boost it gives them when the hand is over. 
 
Catch them with their hands in the cookie jar… and you’ll get paid. 
 
Those are five of the most common signs of a sucker. Trust your intuition when you sit 
down at the table. Match your strengths on the weaknesses of your opponents… And 
don’t forget: When you can consistently beat a player, go after them and empty their 
pockets as soon as possible. Don’t waste time in building your stack— otherwise a 
different player at the table will do so. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 169 - 
 
BLUFFING 
 
To win at poker, you must bluff. There’s just no way around it. Now obviously, you want 
to make CALCULATED BLUFFS… when you’ve got good positioning, sense weakness, 
and you’re confident you can steal the pot. 
 
The general purpose of a bluff is to steal a pot… everyone knows that. But there’s a 
SECONDARY purpose to bluffing that most players don’t realize… and that’s investing 
in your TABLE IMAGE.  
 
Every time you get “caught” bluffing, just think of it as an investment. Store it away in 
your mind, knowing that it will contribute to your aggressive table image. 
 
I’ve been caught bluffing MANY TIMES. I lost track many, many years ago. But do I 
regret all those chips I lost? Of course not! Those “busted bluffs” led me to probably 
TEN TIMES as many pots WON. 
 
Here’s a real-life example of how a bluff pays off… 
 
I sat down at a casino and bought in for $200 at a $1-2 no limit game. I didn’t know 
anyone at the table, so it was time to let these guys know how I play. 
 
I waited for a decent hand before jumping into the action… mainly trying to get a feel for 
the table and find out who the fish are. Finding the fish usually takes about ten minutes. 
You don’t even have to play a hand with them, actually… you can usually just tell based 
on their demeanor. 
 
Anyway… the fourth hand I see at this table is 5-4 suited and I’m just to the right of the 
button, which is good positioning. I sense weakness in the three players who limp-in in 
front of me, so I decide to make a raise. 
 
“$40 to play”, I say… as I splash the pot. 
 
 
 
 
- 170 - 
Everyone looks up at me… some just noticing that I’m the new player at the table. The 
REASON I make this bet is to let these guys know that they’re going to hear from me. I 
also make it because I expect my opponents to fold. 
 
After all, I sensed weakness when they limped-in and they’re going to be unsure of what 
I have since I just sat down a few hands ago. They probably think I’ve got Queens, Kings, 
or Aces. So I expect them to fold and me to get some blinds. 
 
I do this type of play in just about every game… especially when it’s a table full of 
strangers. This play is simply an investment for later. 
 
Anyway… just as I thought… everyone folds with no hesitation. I throw over my 5-4 and 
say, “C’mon guys, loosen up. I know you had my five high beat.” 
 
And this REALLY pisses them off. A very tight game can become a CRAZY, real poker 
game when someone makes a play like this. Frankly, I don’t really care if I piss someone 
off here. In general I don’t want enemies at the table, but a good poker player would 
recognize the strategy behind a move like this and respect me… not be angry about it. 
 
And now my bluff has set me up for action for the rest of the night. I get two callers 
every time I catch a hand like Kings or Aces and make it $30 to play. 
 
Of course, I carefully pick my spots to attack. I’ll still occasionally make a $25 pre-flop 
raise with a small suited-connector… but only when I sense a lot of weakness and feel 
like I can take down the pot. 
 
And I don’t show these other bluffs. You only need to show a bluff once or twice at a 
table. And you only do it when you want to try to put your opponents on tilt and 
establish your table image. 
 
The night is going very well and I’m up to about $1200. I’ve been ready to leave for 
about an hour now… and so I finally make a mental decision that this will be the very 
last hand I play. I look down to see: 
 
 
 
 
Nice. What a great hand to end a ten hour poker session with. 
 
 
 
 
- 171 - 
I’m fifth to act before the flop and decide to simply limp-in. I do this because I don’t like 
my positioning and I’m sure that someone behind me will make a raise. Plus, I don’t 
want to get silly… seeing as this is my last hand. 
 
Sure enough, the guy on the button makes it $10 to play. Two other players before me 
call. I’m next… and I’m more than happy to pay $8 more with my K-Q. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
I’ve got an open-ended straight draw with two cards to come. The first to guys check to 
me. 
 
I play the hand exactly as I’m supposed to by making a bet. Except here I make a semi-
bluff by betting $40… somewhat more than I’d usually bet with just an open-ended 
straight draw. I’m hoping to take the pot down now. 
 
Tom, the guy on the button who made the original raise, immediately announces 
another raise. 
 
“Let’s make it $80 to play”, he says. 
 
I chuckle to myself… as if $40 more is going to scare me with my $1200 chip stack. 
 
The next two players fold and the action is back to me. I know Tom has a good hand. 
He’s not a very aggressive player and definitely won’t raise his opponent unless he’s got 
a hand. I’m putting him on Kings or Aces. 
 
But hey, I’m I can handle a $40 raise with this nice pot. If I hit, I’m going to take the rest 
of his chips… so the implied odds are good. 
 
All I need is an Ace or nine. Technically the odds are just above 30%, except that I have a 
feeling he might have the Aces so that decreases my odds accordingly. Of course, if he 
DOES have Aces and an Ace hits, he’ll make trips, so there will be no doubt I’ll get the 
rest of his stack. 
 
The turn card comes: 
 
 
 
- 172 - 
 
 
 
Not exactly what I was looking for.  
 
I have to check here… no sense betting only to get raised. So I check, and Tom bets $50. 
I call once again, hoping to hit on the river. The final card comes: 
 
 
 
So now the board reads: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I’m first to act… and I’ve COMPLETELY missed my draw. But I see that the third club 
just hit the river. Representing the flush is my only chance at taking this pot down. With 
the way the hand has played out, it can definitely look like I’ve been on the flush draw 
the whole time… and Tom is probably scared now that the third club hit the board. 
 
So I have two options here… I can either accept defeat or I can make a bold stab at this 
pot. I decide to go for it… especially since this is my last hand of the night.  
 
“How much do you have left Tom?”, I ask… looking as though I’ve just made my hand. 
He looks down and starts to count his stack chip by chip by chip… 
 
“No Tom, you don’t have to tell me the exact amount… just an approximation.” 
 
“Um… about $300”, he replies. 
 
 
 
 
- 173 - 
The only way I can win this pot is by representing the flush. And based on Tom’s 
reaction, he doesn’t seem too happy about the club hitting the board… nor does he seem 
happy about having to count his chips. I think I can steal it. 
 
So I bet $250, as I push in two large stacks of chips that I PRAY he’ll fold to. 
 
Tom thinks about… and thinks about it some more… and then thinks about it some 
more. I swear we sat there for ten minutes waiting for him to make up his damn mind.  
 
Finally, looking as if he’s going to muck his cards, he says, “Well, I know you hit your 
flush, but I’m going to pay you off” and he calls my bet. 
 
“Good call man, I’ve got King high”, is what I say as I rack up my other chips. I wish 
everyone good game and walk away from the table. I leave the game still up a good 
chunk of money and not disappointed about the final hand one bit.  
 
I know that one out of two players… or even two out of three players would have laid 
that hand down in Tom’s shoes. And so my bluff was just an investment. I know I’ll be at 
a table with one of those other players at some point in the future (it was a local casino) 
and each of them… especially Bill… is going to remember my aggressive style of play and 
that last hand where I put it all on the line with nothing but King high. 
 
This type of playing strategy is why I left that table with nearly four times as much 
money as I started with. And it’s why I’ll get action with big hands later. 
 
So that’s how it’s done. You’ve got to look at bluffing as an investment in the future. 
Bluff at the right times, show your bluffs at the right times, and don’t regret the times 
you get caught. Over the long run you’ll increase your profits considerably. 
 
 
 
- 174 - 
 
BUYING A FREE CARD 
 
Many players understand that it’s important to play more aggressively from good 
positions. But most players only understand the logic to the extent that good positioning 
means you get to see what your opponent does first. 
 
There’s more… 
 
If you play your position properly, you can often buy a “free card” on the turn. This 
strategy is very important for hands like suited-connectors, semi-connectors, or low 
pocket pairs. Because the flop may or may not help you… and you might want to see one 
more card before backing off or completing a hand. 
 
When I refer to “good positioning” here… I mean when you’re on the button or just to 
the right of the button or two seats to the right of the button. That’s for an 8-man table. 
If the table is smaller, the button and player to the right of the button is good 
positioning. 
 
OK, so here’s an example of how I buy free cards… 
 
I sit down at the riverboat at a $1-2 no limit game. A few hands, while I’m on the button, 
I pick up: 
 
 
 
 
A few players limp in and the action comes to me. I decide to leverage my table 
positioning… and hopefully buy a free turn card (if I want it). So I make it $20 to play. 
 
I make this bet because of my GOOD POSITIONING and because I don’t think any of 
my opponents have strong hands. If someone had pocket tens or higher, he would have 
raised. So I’m putting them on hands like A-J, K-Q, Q-J, or small pocket pairs. 
 
 
 
- 175 - 
 
This is the perfect setup for the hand I’m holding. If I get a caller (I know I won’t get 
more than one with this type of raise), my pre-flop raise will essentially let me see the 
turn card for free… this works nine times out of ten. 
 
Even if my opponent MAKES his hand on the flop, he’ll still likely check… because he 
anticipates another big bet from me after my large pre-flop raise.  
 
This is great with a hand like suited-connectors because the hand has so many hidden 
possibilities of making a straight, flush, or maybe even two pair. Buying yourself a free 
card puts you in the “driver’s seat” for winning the pot. Your odds of hitting something 
with a suited-connector by seeing the flop AND turn are pretty good. 
 
Of course, this also sets you up in a position to just BUY the pot if you think your 
opponent is weak… and you’ll want to do this sometimes too, of course. 
 
If you only limped-in from the button with your 9-8, however, you wouldn’t have ANY 
advantages going for you. You’d let a lot of people see the flop, which means someone’s 
going to catch. By the time the action gets around to you you’ll be forced to call a bet… 
possibly a large one. And what then? Even if the flop is favorable and puts you on a draw, 
should you call and risk your chips? 
 
When you’re on the button or in late positioning, you sense weakness, and you have a 
hand where you’d like to see the flop AND turn card, go ahead and raise the pot 
aggressively. This will buy you a free card, help you “make” more hands, and will allow 
you to buy several more pots over the course of the night.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 176 - 
 
RAISING WITH A DRAW 
 
Let’s talk about how to win more money when you’re on a draw. Here’s how most 
players play the draw: 
 
You’re just to the right of the button and you look down at your cards: 
 
 
 
 
Josh, who’s under the gun, comes out firing and makes it $15 to play. Darren calls and 
the action is to you. 
 
You love your suited-connectors, so you jump in to see a flop… hoping to catch 
something that you can use to bust your opponents. Plus, you’ve got good positioning on 
Josh and Darren. The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Nice! You’ve just flopped an open-ended straight flush draw… You’ve got more outs than 
you can count. 
 
Josh, who made the original raise, comes out firing with very little hesitation.  
 
“Make it $30 to play”, he says. Darren mucks his cards and the action is to you.  
 
You call. 
 
 
 
- 177 - 
 
I mean, why wouldn’t you? You’ve got an open-ended straight flush draw… you’ve got to 
see that turn and river card and hopefully make the big hand you’re looking for. The 
turn card comes: 
 
 
 
This is no help to you. Josh comes out firing again, this time with a $60 bet. And once 
again, you call. The river card comes: 
 
 
 
Ouch. You’ve completely missed your draw. And now Josh bets $100… and you have 
nothing left to do but muck your cards and watch Josh rake in a big pot. 
 
That, my friend, is a TERRIBLE way to play a draw. But it’s how most card players will 
INSTINCTIVELY play it.  
 
You see, one of the things you’ll learn is that the NATURAL thing to do in a given 
situation is usually the WRONG thing to do. Because most people play REACTIVE Texas 
Holdem… rather than PROACTIVE Texas Holdem. 
 
Don’t let your opponents come out firing over and over again while you’re on the draw… 
only to keep calling. When you behave like this, the ONLY WAY you can win is by 
making your hand. 
 
Of course, the odds are almost always AGAINST you to make your hand. Even in this 
EXTREME situation where you had a open-ended straight flush draw, you still only had 
54.12% odds of making your hand after the flop… and 32.61% odds on the river card. 
And that’s the best your odds you will EVER get on a draw. 
 
OK, let’s look at the RIGHT way to play this hand. The key, of course, is RAISING the 
pot when you’re on a draw. Let’s take a look: 
 
 
 
 
- 178 - 
You’ve got 7-6 diamonds and the board reads: 
 
 
 
 
 
Josh bets $30, Darren folds, and the action is to you. Instead of CALLING, you make a 
RAISE. 
 
“Let’s make it $60”, you say. 
 
Now… if Josh has something like A-Q right now, he might muck his cards right here. But 
let’s assume he’s on a hand like A-K or K-Q and just made his top pair. 
 
Your raise completely turns the tables on him. Now he’s lost control of the action… he’s 
got to put you on a big hand. He hesitates, then calls. 
 
The turn card comes, and now the board reads: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instead of firing a bet this time (as he did in our earlier scenario), Josh checks to you. 
He expects you to come out betting, of course. 
 
And that’s where you bought yourself a free card AND took control of the hand. You can 
bet him out of the hand right here… and still feel safe because you’ve got good odds of 
making your hand. Or you can check to see the river card and hope to make your hand. 
 
If you remember in the FIRST scenario Josh bet $60 after the turn. And that was 
because HE WAS IN CONTROL OF THE BETTING. By raising Josh on the flop, YOU 
took control of the betting and Josh checked to you on the turn. So it cost you a total of 
$60 after the flop to see both the turn and river… instead of costing you $90 as in the 
previous scenario.  
 
Not only that, but now you’re in a position to BUY the pot. You can actually win it 
WITHOUT making your hand. 
 
 
 
- 179 - 
 
And there’s ANOTHER benefit. If the turn card completed your straight or flush (or 
both), there would already be MORE money in the pot for you. Josh would still check to 
you, but you would have secured his $60 after the flop. 
 
Because if you let Josh stay in control of the hand and another diamond hit the board on 
the turn, Josh would probably back off… knowing that the diamond might have just 
made your hand. 
 
So you see, raising with a draw accomplishes three things: 
 
1. Gets you a free card. 
 
2. Puts you in a position to win the hand WITHOUT actually completing your hand. 
 
3. Gets more chips in the middle EARLY… that way if you DO make your hand you win 
more. 
 
This is the perfect technique for MAXIMIZING YOUR WINNINGS on a big hand… 
while also minimizing your risk. The key is to be proactive, rather than reactive, and to 
raise with your draws in order to take control of the hand. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 180 - 
 
SEMI-BLUFF 
 
The semi-bluff is one of the single most powerful techniques in the entire game of Texas 
Holdem poker. A semi-bluff is when you make a BLUFF, but you have a lot of outs… so 
it’s not REALLY a bluff. 
 
The semi-bluff is usually made while on a good draw, but can be used in other situations 
as well. Let’s look at a semi-bluff example while on a draw… 
 
You’re sixth to act in a $200 buy-in tournament. There are 100 players in the 
tournament. So needless to say, you’re playing to make the final table so that you can 
win some good money. 
 
Darren is fourth to act before the flop and he makes it 1000 chips to play, which isn’t a 
big bet with respect to the 200-400 blinds. You’re chip leader at the table you’re sitting 
at, with about 80,000 in chips. 
 
You look down at your cards: 
 
 
 
 
You decide to call Darren’s bet here, as the rest of the table folds. J-10 is a good “hidden 
hand”, and as chip leader you can play it with your positioning on Darren. 
 
The flop comes out: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 181 - 
 
This gives you an open-ended straight draw, which equals a 31.45% chance of making 
your straight with two cards to go. 
 
Darren is first to act and hesitates for a moment, then throws out a bet of 2000. You 
pick up a tell on him and think the Ace scares him… but you’re not completely sure. 
 
You, of course, don’t like the Ace hitting the board. Darren could very easily have made 
that pre-flop raise with an Ace in his hand. Either way, you need to find out where you’re 
at in the hand. 
 
So you make it 4000 to play… doubling Darren’s original bet 
 
THIS is a semi-bluff. You have nothing yet, but you’re working on making a hand. And 
as you’re “working on it”, your semi-bluff does three important things: 
 
1. It gives you control of the action and lets Darren know that he can’t push you around 
here. 
 
2. It (usually) gives you a free card. If you miss the straight on the turn, Darren is 
probably going to check to you because you raised him last time and he anticipates 
another bet. 
 
3. It gives you a chance at winning the pot even if you miss your draw. 
 
Darren thinks awhile about your raise and then calls. You’re putting him on an Ace with 
no kicker… or maybe a hand like pocket Kings. If he had anything stronger he would 
have probably gone back over the top of you. But he just called… which means you’re in 
control of the hand now. 
 
The turn comes: 
 
 
 
Not exactly what you were hoping for. Of course, Darren checks here… since he’s 
anticipating another bet from you. He’s putting you on a big hand. You sense a LOT of 
weakness in him this time… so you don’t even think he has the Ace.  
 
 
 
- 182 - 
 
So you decide to buy the pot. You bet 6000, as you push in two large stacks of chips. 
Darren looks down at his cards a second time, and then tosses them into the muck. 
 
And you rake in a nice pot, due to your semi-bluff. 
 
Now of course, this is the proper way to play your draws (most notably open-ended 
straight draws). But the semi-bluff is a very versatile technique that can be used in many 
other situations as well…  
 
It’s important that you strategize with this technique IN CONJUNCTION with others. 
For example… using a semi-bluff on the short stack at the table is always a good idea.  
 
Let’s say you’re holding: 
 
 
 
 
And the board reads: 
 
 
 
 
 
There are just two players in the hand and you’re first to act. Now, you only have bottom 
pair here, but you know that your opponent will fold unless he’s made a hand already. 
So you throw out a semi-bluff. 
 
Now pay attention… the semi-bluff is NOT some small, weak bet. The semi-bluff is 
usually an AGGRESSIVE bet. You make it to represent a good hand. If your opponent 
does not have a King here, or a draw, he will fold. 
 
In this example, you’re hoping to bet your opponent out of this pot. If he comes back 
over the top of you, you’ll fold… but that won’t happen very often. If he calls, you’re still 
OK, since you have outs. There are two fours in the deck that will help you, along with 
three Aces. That makes for five outs out of forty-seven cards… a 10.64% chance of 
 
 
 
- 183 - 
hitting on the turn, a 10.87% chance of hitting on the river, and a 20.35% chance of 
hitting if you see both the turn and river. 
 
Be careful… you don’t want to bet recklessly or waste chips. Choose your times to attack 
wisely… based on your opponent, their betting habits, your read on them, and 
positioning. If you shift gears frequently and use the semi-bluff in conjunction with 
other techniques we talk about, it will become a very powerful weapon in your arsenal of 
killer Holdem secrets… 
 
Go ahead and start using the semi-bluff immediately in your next game of Texas 
Holdem. You won’t be sorry. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 184 - 
 
LEAVE YOURSELF OUTS 
 
Bluffing is a part of the game. Using the “all-in factor” is important in order to steal pots 
and blinds in order to maintain a decent chip stack… especially if you don’t catch any 
good hands for awhile. 
 
One of the important things about bluffing, however, is that you MUST leave yourself 
outs. Not having outs is a bad way to play the game. Here’s a bluff without outs that I 
witnessed the other night… 
 
Bill was holding: 
 
 
 
 
Bill was on the button and made a pre-flop raise. Not a bad play with this hand and 
positioning… I would probably do the same. 
 
Josh, who was in the big blind, was the only player to call the $15 pre-flop raise. The flop 
hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
Josh was first to act and he checked to Bill… probably because he anticipated another 
bet from the raiser. 
 
Sure enough, Bill bets $40 on a stone cold bluff. There aren’t any hearts on the board 
and Bill doesn’t have a pair or anything. But it’s still not that bad of a play on his part… 
 
 
 
- 185 - 
he’s simply following up his pre-flop raise with a post-flop bet. He’s hoping Josh doesn’t 
have the Ace and will fold. 
 
Instead of folding, however, Josh looked down at his cards for a second time and then 
matched Bill’s bet with a call. 
 
And THIS is where Bill should have seen the red flag waving in the air and should have 
backed off. He made a pre-flop raise with a hidden hand and didn’t hit anything on the 
flop. He took a stab after the flop and didn’t get it. Now it’s time to minimize his losses 
and live to see another hand. 
 
The turn card comes: 
 
 
 
This is obviously no help to Bill. Josh checks again. 
 
This is where Bill screwed up. Instead of checking and seeing the river card for free, Bill 
bluffs at the pot hoping to buy it. 
 
“I’m all-in”, he says. 
 
The problem is, Bill didn’t have any outs. No draws or anything. If Josh calls his bet, Bill 
is dead… Period. 
 
Sure enough, Josh calls and throws over A-Q… giving him top pair with a Queen kicker. 
 
And Bill is embarrassed to even show his hand. He’s drawing dead to a pair. He’s got no 
outs… a ZERO percent chance of winning the hand. Even if he just had a GUTSHOT 
straight draw he’d be better off than he is now. 
 
As soon as Josh called the post-flop bet of $40, Bill should have backed off and gave up 
on the hand. But instead he ended up losing $200 because he bluffed without outs. 
 
The key is bluffing is to do it when you’re CONFIDENT your opponent won’t call. So one 
might argue that it DOESN’T MATTER if you have outs or not… 
 
 
 
 
- 186 - 
But it DOES matter. It matters because sometimes you WILL get caught on a bluff. And 
it’s always better to have as many outs as possible.  
 
If there are three cards left in the deck that can help you and the turn and river cards are 
remaining, you have a 12.49% chance of completing your hand. If there are five cards in 
the deck, you’ve got over a 20% chance. 
 
Over the course of your poker career you will get caught bluffing… many times, no 
matter how well you time your bluffs. And if you can WIN one out of ten, or one of five 
times, then you’re saving yourself a lot of chips over the long haul. It’s yet another way 
to increase your “poker profitability”. 
 
 
 
 
- 187 - 
 
THE FIVE PLAYER TYPES AND HOW TO BEAT THEM 
 
First, let’s start with the basics. 
 
“Player styles” can be broken down like this: 
 
You’re either… TIGHT or LOOSE. 
 
AND… 
 
You’re either… PASSIVE or AGGRESSIVE. 
 
A lot of people confuse “passive” with “tight” and “loose” with “aggressive”. It can be a 
little confusing at first… but this report will clear things up for you. 
 
TIGHT and LOOSE refer to HAND SELECTION. I’m talking about WHICH HANDS 
YOU PLAY… both at the beginning and during a hand. 
 
If you only place A-A, K-K, and Q-Q, you’d be considered a very TIGHT player. “Tight” is 
someone who doesn’t play a lot of hands. 
 
If you’ll jump in a pot with 7-2 offsuit just because they’re “live” cards, you’d be 
considered a very LOOSE player. “Loose” describes someone who plays LOTS of starting 
hands. 
 
OK, so that’s “tight” versus “loose”. 
 
Now… PASSIVE and AGGRESSIVE refer to BETTING. I’m talking specifically about 
BETTING AMOUNTS. 
 
If you limp-in and check with your pocket Aces, you’re demonstrating PASSIVE 
behavior. If you go all-in, you’re being AGGRESSIVE. 
 
Got it? 
 
 
 
 
- 188 - 
It’s pretty simple. Just remember that tight and loose are opposites and relate to HAND 
SELECTION… passive and aggressive are also opposites and relate to BETTING. 
 
Now, each player contains ONE of the first qualities and ONE of the second qualities. 
You can be either: 
 
• Tight-Aggressive 
• Loose-Aggressive 
• Tight-Passive 
• Loose-Passive 
 
Tight-aggressive is the PREFERRED playing style… because it is the most effective. It’s 
the player who plays premium hands and gets paid off with them.  
 
It’s important for me to interject something here…  
 
These four basic styles are CLASSIFICATIONS. Don’t take them TOO literally… just 
because a player demonstrates loose behavior in a hand doesn’t make him loose. And as 
in all of poker, every player and every situation is different. 
 
OK, now you’re ready for the five player types and how to beat them. The five player 
types are really just THESE FOUR STYLES plus one more. We’ll be looking at how to 
successfully PLAY AGAINST each style so that you come out ahead. 
 
THE FIVE PLAYER TYPES 
 
There’s a lot of POWER in classifying and “stereotyping” players. 
 
If you play a lot of poker, you’ll see hundreds… and THOUSANDS… of different players. 
Often times you’ll sit down at a table of strangers where EVERY HAND MATTERS. 
Having never played with these opponents… how do you know what to do? 
 
The answer is to pick up little “signals” from a player and then USE THAT 
INFORMATION to stereotype and make educated guesses about how they’ll play. 
 
There’s no “tell all” way to do it, of course. This is to simply give you that EXTRA edge 
and insight… something to simply add to your poker “bag of tricks”. 
 
OK, so here are the five player types. A lot of poker players have different ways to 
classify the styles out there. This list is based on my EXPERIENCE both online and 
 
 
 
- 189 - 
offline. I believe it’s counter-productive to try to memorize TEN different “personalities” 
or whatever. 
 
I like to keep things simple, which is why I endorse the concept of five main types. Here 
they are: 
 
 
1. “Mike The Manic” - Loose/Aggressive 
 
2. “Rick The Rock” - Tight/Passive 
 
3. “Arrogant Andy” - The Ego Player 
 
4. “Shawn The Shark” - Tight/Aggressive 
 
5. “Frank The Fish” - Loose/Passive 
 
OK, let’s take a look at each one… 
 
“MIKE THE MANIC” – LOOSE/AGGRESSIVE 
 
Manics are the dreaded players in most poker rooms. They’re crazy… erratic… and 
unpredictable.  
 
I mean, who raises with 2-4 offsuit just because “24” is their favorite number? The 
MANIC does. 
 
Characteristics of the Manic 
 
A manic is LOOSE and AGGRESSIVE. That means they play a lot of hands… not 
necessarily GOOD hands… and they bet them aggressively. Manics usually BLUFF often 
too. 
 
Over time, the hands that manics usually WIN are the ones where everyone else folds… 
not the “showdowns”. The showdowns manics win are usually the result of a lucky “suck 
out”. 
 
At the surface, it’d appear that manics would be EASY to beat… and that they probably 
don’t win much. As it turns out, the OPPOSITE is the case. 
 
The reason is because many manics UNDERSTAND poker… they “get” positioning, 
sensing weakness, and scaring away opponents. The loose-aggressive style is MOST 
effective at a table of tightwads, which often happens in amateur tournaments or cash 
games. 
 
Spotting a Manic 
 
 
 
 
- 190 - 
Manics are easy to spot. He’s the guy pushing the action… the one who seems to be in 
practically EVERY hand…  
 
A KEY characteristic of loose-aggressive players is their “all-in” or large bet frequency. A 
good player will bet aggressively. A MANIC will bet half his stack—or the entire thing—
OFTEN. 
 
Some loose-aggressive players demonstrate most of their crazy moves from good 
positioning. These are the “smarter” ones. Others will raise and re-raise from pretty 
much any position. 
  
Beating a Manic 
 
It’s almost impossible to BEAT a manic. 
 
In fact, I suggest that you NEVER try to beat a manic.  
 
That’s right, do NOT try to take his money… 
 
Instead, the secret is to LET HIM BEAT HIMSELF. 
 
Let HIM give YOU his money.  
 
Because the biggest weakness of a manic is that he tries to buy TOO many pots… and 
gets TOO aggressive. He’ll try to bully you, no matter what it takes. 
 
And sooner or later, you’re going to have a monster hand. The kind of hand that you 
KNOW he can’t beat. And that’s when you get paid off. 
 
You must be patient. At a full table, wait like you normally would for PREMIUM hands… 
and play them aggressively. If the manic comes in doing the raising for you, just smooth 
call. Don’t let him know you’ve got a monster. Make him think you’ve got something 
DECENT—so that he’ll hang onto the hope that he can buy the pot from you. 
 
At a short-handed table against a manic, you have to play his game. You can’t just sit 
back and be as patient, because the blinds will eat you up. The best tactic is this… If you 
have a marginal hand, raise him. If you have a strong hand, call.  
 
Don’t get yourself into trouble with the bad hands… the key is to get him to COME TO 
YOU with your monsters. It only takes one pot to decide the game. 
 
 
 
 
- 191 - 
Also… don’t try to make a move on a manic unless you’ve got a BIG hand. For instance, 
let’s say Mike the Manic makes a pre-flop raise. You call with pocket 8’s… and there’s 
one other caller in the hand. 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
IMMEDIATELY, Mike the Manic goes ALL-IN. The other player folds and the action is 
to you… What do you do? 
 
You should probably fold. Even if you think he’s just buying the pot, you really can’t be 
too sure. The fact is Mike could EASILY be holding 7-2 right now… and in that case he 
just flopped a monster. On the other hand, he may have K-2 or K-7… or maybe just 9-4… 
or maybe pocket 2’s. You just don’t know.  
 
What you DO know is that all you have is pocket eights… and that’s not good enough to 
call in this situation. 
 
So be careful. Sit back and be patient if you can… and let the Manic destroy himself. 
Don’t go on tilt from his erratic behavior, because that’s EXACTLY what he wants. 
 
“RICK THE ROCK” – TIGHT/PASSIVE 
 
Rick is the exact opposite of Mike. Instead of being a loose cannon… ready to buy the pot 
and bet aggressively any time… Rick just sits there. Like a rock. He only gets aggressive 
when he’s got the nuts. 
 
Characteristics of the Rock 
 
The key characteristic of the rock is that they don’t get involved in many hands… and 
when they DO get involved, they don’t play aggressively. 
 
A rock will often limp-in with solid hands… or call a small raise… and maybe make a 
weak raise. They think only of how they can get BEAT… rather than jumping in and 
risking their chips. 
 
Here’s what I mean… 
 
 
 
- 192 - 
 
Let’s say you’ve got A-10 suited at a 4-man table. Rick the Rock calls your pre-flop raise, 
so it’s just you and him heads-up. 
 
Your cards: 
 
 
 
 
Rick’s cards: 
 
 
 
 
The flop comes out: 
 
 
 
         
 
This flop sucks for you, but you need to represent it. You figure Rick doesn’t have the 
straight. So you bet. 
 
Rick calls. The turn comes out: 
 
 
 
You bet again. 
 
 
 
 
- 193 - 
Now here’s what Rick is thinking. “Damn, he could have a four… a higher pocket pair 
than mine… or any of those straight draws like 3-2, 7-8, 3-7. He’s probably got me beat… 
but I have to call this bet.” 
 
Now the river hits: 
 
 
 
You know Rick is a wuss. So you fire out another bet… this time a BIG bet… HOPING he 
folds. 
 
And sure enough, terrified of losing, Rick folds at the river! 
 
You take a deep breath… and gratefully rake the pot. 
 
What was Rick thinking?! 
 
Well, he was only thinking of LOSING… not thinking LOGICALLY enough. The fact is, if 
he had paid attention he would have known that seven probably didn’t help you. You 
wouldn’t have waited around with an eight on a gutshot straight draw. And you probably 
wouldn’t have made a pre-flop raise holding a three or four. 
 
See what I mean? 
 
Rick the Rock is a WIMP. A tight-passive wimp. 
 
Spotting a Rock 
 
The easiest way to spot a Rock is to look for the guy who folds on the river… or folds to a 
small raise… or gets out of a hand even though pot odds are in his favor for a call. That’s 
typical tight-passive behavior. 
 
“Check-calling” is also classic Rick the Rock behavior. 
 
Beating Rocks 
 
As you probably already figured out, the key to beating Rocks is to bet… bet… and bet. 
When you’re aggressive you’ll scare out Rocks—even when they have better cards. 
 
 
 
- 194 - 
 
If you ever get RAISED by a Rock, run away… FAST! 
 
The tricky thing about Rocks is that they can easily blend in with the rest of the table if 
you’re not paying attention. Especially online. At a 10-man Sit and Go, for example, it’s 
amazing how you can get away with ONLY playing premium hands like Queens, Kings, 
and Aces… and STILL get callers. 
 
The reason is because online players don’t pay attention to the other players enough. 
 
Don’t make this mistake. Spot the Rocks as soon as you can, and stay out of their way if 
they bet. 
 
Also note that Rocks seem to be more common in MEDIUM stakes games online… 
rather than LOW stakes. At the low stakes, this style of play rarely works because there 
are usually more players to each flop. That prevents the Rock from getting to the end of 
a hand much. 
 
“ARROGANT ANDY” – The Ego Player 
 
I prefer to classify “ego players” separate from other types… because they just seem to be 
a breed of their own. 
 
An ego player might be a Rock OR a Manic… but his vain approach to the game is the 
key weakness that you can use to your advantage. 
 
Characteristics of the Ego Player 
 
Arrogant Andy is the guy who likes to win pots. 
 
Of course… EVERYONE likes to win pots. 
 
But Andy is more extreme about it… he’s willing to WASTE money in his effort. For 
example, he’ll chase just about any draw… in hopes of winning that “monster” pot. 
 
When Andy loses a hand, he blames bad beats, bad luck, or say something like, “Ha… I 
knew it all along.” 
 
Spotting an Ego Player 
 
It can be difficult to spot Arrogant Andy until he shows his face. In live games it’s 
easier… online it’s harder.  
 
 
 
- 195 - 
 
Andy’s the guy that shows up when things get emotional. 
 
For instance, if someone catches a bad beat then comes out firing on the next hand, 
there’s a good chance it’s Andy. He’s not being logical…he’s on tilt. 
 
Another way to spot Andy online is in the chat feature. After he loses a big hand he’ll say 
stuff like: 
 
>>> Hmm… nice move playing that 5-7 with a pre-flop raise. This your  
first time playing poker? 
 
Or 
 
 
>>> WTF are you thinking playing those rags?! *! 
 
Beating the Ego Player 
 
You’ll begin to love players like Andy… because once you know how to beat them it’s 
EASY. 
 
The key is to get them while they’re playing on EMOTION… whether it’s anger, boredom, 
shock… whatever. (These can all be classified as “tilt”.) 
 
Your strategy is to basically let them have some room to HANG THEMSELVES… but not 
so much rope that they can STRANGLE YOU. 
 
You’ll achieve this by making a sequence of solid bets to pot-commit Andy to a pot. This 
is NOT slow-playing. It’s DRAWING THEM IN… taking advantage of the fact that 
they’re not thinking straight. 
 
Let me show you what I mean… 
 
You check the big blind in a No Limit game with semi-connectors. You see the flop free. 
 
Your cards: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 196 - 
 
The flop: 
 
 
 
 
 
Nice. You’ve just flopped a flush… with a chance at hitting a STRAIGHT FLUSH if you 
get that three of diamonds. 
 
Arrogant Andy leads with a bet. Instead of smooth calling (that’s what you’d do against a 
Manic), you raise. Not a BIG raise… maybe even just the minimum. 
 
He calls.  
 
The turn hits: 
 
 
 
Andy bets again. You make a small raise again… and he calls again. 
 
Now the river: 
 
 
 
Andy bets AGAIN. (He’s got top pair.) 
 
Now… instead of just making a small raise… you go ALL-IN. You figure he doesn’t have 
the flush and you’ve got him completely pot-committed. 
 
 
 
 
- 197 - 
Andy thinks about it for awhile… he “knows” you have the flush… but then again you 
might just be buying the pot after a busted draw. He’s got top pair with a good kicker… 
there’s no way he’ll catch another “bad beat” again, right?  
 
So pot-committed Arrogant Andy calls… and you double up. 
 
This is how you beat Andy. Don’t force TOO much action against him, otherwise he’ll 
run. Try to reel him in slowly and get him pot-committed. 
 
“SHAWN THE SHARK” – TIGHT/AGGRESSIVE 
 
If you notice “sharks” at the table, it might be a good idea to LEAVE. Don’t play when 
you’re outmatched. 
 
But chances are, YOU will be the best player at the table… if for no other reason than the 
fact you’re studying Texas Holdem and learning how to improve.  
 
Characteristics of the Shark 
 
As you know, the tight-aggressive player doesn’t waste his money playing bad hands. 
He’s patient… and plays premium hands aggressively. He gets his money in the pot with 
the best hand… and protects his money when he doesn’t have the best hand. 
 
Shawn the Shark will only see maybe one in five flops… maybe one in ten. He folds a lot, 
but when he sees a flop he’s ready for SERIOUS ACTION. 
 
I’ll keep the profile for Shawn the Shark short and to the point… because the entire point 
of my BOOK is to teach you how to become a shark. 
 
Spotting the Shark 
 
Sharks can be difficult to pinpoint at first glance… but a careful observation of the table 
will quickly clue you in. 
 
Look for the player who doesn’t play a lot of hands… but when he DOES play, he seems 
to always win… and those pots always seem large… and as a result this player has a huge 
chip stack. 
 
That’s Shawn the Shark. 
 
Beating the Shark 
 
 
 
 
- 198 - 
Ultimately you must learn how to beat good poker players like yourself. Because that’s 
the only way you’ll win serious money in the game. 
 
There are basically three ways to beat Shawn the Shark… 
 
1. Get lucky… 
 
One of the interesting things about poker is that you can use your SKILLS to create “coin 
toss” situations… where the winner is usually determined by luck. 
 
In heads-up poker, go all-in with a starting pair. A pair versus two over-cards has a 
slight advantage. So if you pick up four’s, go all-in. If your opponent has two cards 
higher than four but doesn’t have a pair, you’re at a slight advantage. But it’s basically a 
coin toss. 
 
2. Outplay him… 
 
This is obviously the PREFFERED way to beat a Shark.  
 
No matter who it is, your opponent will have weaknesses… or even just areas of his game 
where YOU are stronger. Lean on those areas… no matter what they may be. Does he 
chase too much? Does he call too much? Does he limp-in too much? And so on. 
 
3. Bully him…  
 
One of the COMMON weaknesses of a tight-aggressive player is the TIGHT part at a 
short-handed table. 
 
Many really good players don’t play well short-handed, because they’re waiting for 
better cards… that never come. 
 
If this is the case against your opponent short-handed, take advantage of the weakness 
by being aggressive. Bully Shawn out of pots and bluff with good positioning. 
 
“FRANK THE FISH” – LOOSE/AGGRESSIVE 
 
Of any player type, Frank the Fish is probably the WORST. Especially online. 
 
When you come across Frank the Fish, you can literally turn him into your own personal 
ATM machine… as long as you know how. 
 
Characteristics of the Fish 
 
 
 
- 199 - 
 
Frank is easy to spot. He gets involved in lots of pot… but is easily scared out of them. 
 
On a draw, he’ll stick around when he shouldn’t… but then fold if the pressure gets 
turned up too high. 
 
Frank is often a “calling station.” This means he’ll call many of your bets… but rarely 
raises. If he raises, you’re probably better off folding. 
 
When Frank has a good starting hand but doesn’t hit on the flop, he checks. When he 
gets a piece of the flop, he check-calls.  
 
Spotting the Fish 
 
The fish is easy to spot… Just look for the player quickly losing chips! 
 
Beating the Fish 
 
Frank is the easiest player at the table to beat. And luckily, Frank is the most common 
player these days… especially in online poker with low stakes. 
 
The secret to beating Frank is to be aggressive. If the Fish has a marginal hand, he’ll call 
every bet down the line. If he’s weak, he’ll fold… and you’ll still win the pot. 
 
One of your most powerful weapons against Frank is REPRESENTING THE FLOP. 
Always pretend that the flop was TERRIFIC for you. Because if it didn’t help Frank, he’ll 
fold. 
 
And of course, play your good hands the same way: aggressively. Bet on every card and 
watch Frank call all the way down. 
 
Don’t try anything tricky against Frank the Fish… just play straightforward poker and 
you’ll come out ahead.  
 
 
 
 
- 200 - 
 
 
CHAPTER 51: ONLINE POKER VERSUS LIVE POKER 
CHAPTER 52: WHY IT’S EASIER TO “TILT” ONLINE 
CHAPTER 53: BOREDOM: THE BANKROLL ROBBER 
CHAPTER 54: WHY GOOD PLAYERS OFTEN PLAY BAD POKER ONLINE 
CHAPTER 55: SETTING UP YOUR PLAYING SPACE 
CHAPTER 56: SIT & GO'S 
CHAPTER 57: ONLINE TELLS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 201 - 
 
ONLINE POKER VERSUS LIVE POKER 
 
Live poker is NOT the same as online poker. 
 
Period. 
 
You’ve got to understand this to be successful at both…  
 
Most poker players start in LIVE games and then move to ONLINE games… and then 
get CREAMED for all their money. Again and again and again. 
 
It’s only those who understand the DIFFERENCES between the games and then 
EXPLOIT the advantages in each that turn consistent profits. 
 
I’ve identified seven crucial differences between online and live poker here… start by 
learning these before learning the more advanced techniques to online poker. 
 
Difference 1: Looser Players… 
 
The biggest difference is that online poker players are FAR LOOSER than live players… 
especially at lower stakes. 
 
At the casino I usually see 2-3 players still around at the end of a hand. Online I often 
see 4-5 players flipping over their cards at the end…  
 
What’s this mean for you? Well, if you’re going to play online you need to be ready for 
CRAZY, IRRATIONAL players. It’s common to be thinking, “What the hell was he 
thinking? He called my 400 chip raise bluff with nothing but King high!” 
 
That’s just how it goes. 
 
Annie Duke, a terrific player and WSOP champ, knows a lot about online poker. This is 
what she says: 
 
 
 
 
- 202 - 
“Most online poker players look for any excuse to play. They don’t notice that you 
are a tight player. Just play your good starting hands and you will get plenty of 
action. Don’t worry about discussing your play.”  
 
Couldn’t have said it better myself. 
 
Difference 2: Don’t Bluff As Often…  
 
I wish someone had told me this when I started playing online poker. I would have 
saved a TON of money. 
 
Basically what it boils down to is that it’s MUCH harder to bluff online poker players… 
mostly because they’re looser, as we discussed. 
 
Unless you’re playing higher stakes games where the games are tighter and the players 
are more talented, bluffing is usually unprofitable. The “exception” would be in ring 
games with fewer than six players… since often no one has a real hand. 
 
The other reason you can’t bluff online is because there are a lot of players out there that 
I call “shark hunters”. These are players who look for EXCUSES to call large bets. I’m 
not kidding here. 
 
These players will try to “read” into your big bets and WANT to believe you’re bluffing. 
They get an ego boost from the good calls they make… and don’t seem to remember all 
the monsters they’ve run into. 
 
How do you defeat these opponents? 
 
Simple… Just sit back, wait for strong hands, and play them aggressively. Don’t worry so 
much about check raises and slow plays… just bet your strong hands and fold your weak 
ones. You’ll be amazed at how far you can get on that simple logic alone. 
 
So the moral is, don’t bluff much until you get to higher stakes games or if you’re at a 
short-handed table. 
 
Difference 3: Play The Cards… 
 
I often repeat my mantra: PLAY THE PLAYER, NOT THE CARDS. 
 
Well, online it’s a little different. Often it’s more important to only focus on the cards… 
and the reason is once again because of the looser, unpredictable nature of online poker. 
 
 
 
 
- 203 - 
You can’t predict what you’re opponents will do online as well as you can offline. The 
fast pace of online poker contributes to this characteristic as well. 
 
Difference 4: Different “Tells”… 
 
In live poker, you’ll look to study the TELLS of your opponents… such as body language, 
general composure, etc. 
 
It’s different online. Because you can’t SEE your opponents! 
 
Online poker tells mostly have to do with timing, screen names, and other “non-
expression” aspects of the game. But even those aren’t as reliable as the REAL TELLS 
that exist… which are classic betting patterns and sizes. 
 
If you rely on getting a visual “read” on your opponent in live poker, then playing online 
might be tough for you. 
 
Difference 5: Online Poker Is FAST… 
 
If you’re at a fast table at a casino… with a quick dealer… you may be able to finish thirty 
hands in an hour, max. In online poker, though, I’ve seen as many as NINETY hands in 
an hour. 
 
This is a huge difference and has a major impact on the game. 
 
It means you can go on HUGE RUNS very quickly… but it also means you can go 
BROKE within minutes. 
 
Be sure to take your time online. It’s easy to feel “rushed”, especially with the damn 
timer beeping at you. But don’t fret. Be patient, be careful, and be disciplined. It will 
payoff in multiples. 
 
Difference 6: Virtual Environment… 
 
At a home cash game, you’ll need to physically take a $100 bill out of your wallet to buy 
chips. Same with a casino. 
 
But in online poker, you’re just a CLICK away from betting your entire digital bankroll 
in a single hand. 
 
 
 
 
- 204 - 
This affects the psychology of how players value their money. Since it’s not as “real”, 
people get much more careless with it. TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS and take their 
money off their hands…  
 
Difference Number 7: Different Games… 
 
You won’t find many 10-player single table tournaments in your local cash games. But 
online, these are some of the most popular games around. 
 
Same way with turbo Sit & Go’s, heads-up matches, 100-player tournaments, and so on. 
They’re just not as common in live games as they are online. 
 
Each game requires its own set of strategies and techniques… You can’t bring the same 
patterns of play from one game to another. 
 
A Sit & Go requires a “survival” mentality… whereas a 6-player ring game requires a 
“bully” mentality… and so on. Be sure to CONSCIOUSLY change gears as you move from 
game to game and adjust your style accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 205 - 
 
WHY IT’S EASIER TO “TILT” ONLINE 
 
“Tilt” is the term used to describe playing based on EMOTION instead of STRATEGY. 
When you fall victim to tilt, it’s usually the result of a bad beat… 
 
Going on tilt is a CANCER to your poker winnings. It can cause you recklessly lose your 
entire bankroll… as well as shake your own confidence in your playing ability. 
 
The thing is, it’s much easier to go on tilt ONLINE…  
 
Why? 
 
Because of the cause: the bad beat.  
 
For instance, let’s say Chad is holding a solid hand… 
 
 
 
 
The flop comes out: 
 
 
 
 
 
The opponent across the table moves ALL-IN. 
 
Chad calls, of course. He’s got top two pair. The only thing he’s worries about is trips. 
 
Chad’s opponent flips over his cards. He’s holding: 
 
 
 
- 206 - 
 
  
 
Obviously, Chad has a HUGE advantage.  
 
The turn hits: 
 
 
 
And then the river… 
 
 
 
Chad loses to his opponent’s lucky runner-runner flush. 
 
Now at this point, Chad can do one of two things: 
 
1. Start playing erratically… 
 
2. CALM DOWN and dismiss this bad fortune… 
 
The problem is, most players choose option one. But the reality is, situations like this 
WILL HAPPEN. And there’s ABSOLUTELY NOTHING YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT. 
 
You want all your money in the middle with those types of odds… but unfortunately 
sometimes the “suck out” will occur. 
 
Now online, the “tilt” is worse. Not only is it more FREQUENT because of the bad 
players, but it’s tough for Chad to find a way to “vent” it out. He’s sitting there… starting 
to DWELL on the last hand… looking at the “hand history” function… cursing over and 
over… 
 
 
 
- 207 - 
 
He’s not in a live game where he needs to be decent and polite. He’s PISSED. And it’s 
oh-so-easy to just go all-in with a couple clicks… 
 
The point is, be careful of tilt online. It can quickly get the best of you… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 208 - 
 
BOREDOM: THE BANKROLL ROBBER 
 
BOREDOM is almost as bad as tilt. 
 
Because let’s face it: Sitting in front of the computer and watching a bunch of 
animations play poker (after you’ve folded) is NOT exactly “fun”… 
 
Interestingly, most players don’t think, “Hey, this is a bad hand, but I’ll play it anyway 
because I’m bored…” 
 
It doesn’t work like that. 
 
Boredom CREEPS up on you… more of a subconscious thing… and robs your bankroll. 
 
The way it does this is by causing you to make more LOOSE PLAYS. 
 
Surprise, surprise. 
 
This is YET ANOTHER reason that players are so loose online… because as you sit there 
and listen to the “clickety clicks” of chips in your poker room, YOU WANT TO PLAY. 
You want to bet, you want to raise, and you want to bluff… 
 
At the casino you can strike up conversations with players, flirt with cocktail waitresses, 
or (gasp!) study your opponents’ mannerisms and tells… 
 
So what can you do online? These are four of my favorite ways to “cure” boredom: 
 
1. Take notes… 
 
I like to take notes on the competition. It keeps me engaged… plus, it helps later when I 
recognize betting patterns and learn about my opponents. 
 
Often if I’m not in a hand I’ll try to GUESS what one of the other players has… this helps 
me sharpen my skills and makes things more entertaining. 
 
 
 
 
- 209 - 
2. Play multiple games…  
 
Winning online poker players often fold four out of five hands (depending on the game 
type, of course). This means things can get long and boring. 
 
Many players therefore like to keep multiple tables going at the same time. This keeps 
them more DISCIPLINED since there’s less downtime and twice (or more) the action. 
 
Don’t start playing multiple games at once until you can CONSISTENTLY beat the 
stakes you’re at… otherwise you’ll just lose money. 
 
3. Read Poker Information…  
 
I like to grab a poker magazine, new book, or any other poker article and read through it 
while I play online…  
 
This adds to keeping my mind FRESH at the table.  
 
I also like to play around with the odds calculator I have open… and continually learn 
odds and combinations that I can take to my LIVE/offline poker game. The odds 
calculator I recommend the most— hands-down— is “Holdem Genius” 
(www.HoldemGenius.com).  
 
Here’s what you can do… 
 
Print out the last ten newsletters you’ve gotten from me and keep them handy the next 
time you play online poker. Just sift through them and look for topics and sections that 
are especially relevant to your game. 
 
When you come across a new technique or strategy, you can test it out IMMEDIATELY! 
 
4. Learn Chip Tricks…  
 
Chip tricks and fun and time-consuming… and they don’t require much “brain power”. 
 
I practice new tricks and brush up on old ones during the “down times” of online poker 
games or tournaments…  
 
 
 
 
 
- 210 - 
 
WHY GOOD PLAYERS OFTEN PLAY BAD POKER ONLINE 
 
Bad online poker play is NOT always the result of “poor skills”. In fact, I’ve known 
countless players who are GREAT in live games, but can’t stack up online. 
 
What’s going on here? 
 
The fact is, there are several reasons GOOD players can behave like AMATEURS 
online… 
 
First, online poker takes away some key leverage points. One is reading tells… another is 
bluffing frequently… and another is a solid table image. 
 
Instead, you have to leverage odds calculations, a disciplined hand selection, and 
increased post-flop “aggression levels”. 
 
And making this “switch” isn’t an instant thing. It takes a lot of time and energy… and 
willingness to “rethink” one’s beliefs about how to play poker. 
 
Another major reason good players “go bad” is because of the bad beats. The plain and 
simple truth is many people can’t handle the swings. They blame the card room, they 
call it “rigged”, and they give up. 
 
Don’t let this happen to you.   
 
 
 
 
- 211 - 
 
SETTING UP YOUR PLAYING SPACE 
 
A key difference between WINNERS and LOSERS is that winners pay attention to the 
“little things”. 
 
One of these is WHERE YOU PLAY when you play online… and I’m not talking about 
the poker room itself. I’m talking about what your ENVIRONMENT looks like… 
 
Here are the “do’s and don’ts” that I strongly recommend you adhere to… 
 
• DO turn off the TV – Watching TV while playing online poker is a kiss of death for 
your bankroll. Not only will you be completely distracted from the game, you will get 
disconnected from the poker atmosphere. You won’t be thinking about poker 
between the hands… and this leads to loose and undisciplined play. 
 
• DO sit in a comfortable chair – If you are uncomfortable, you’ll get frustrated more 
easily.  When you’re comfortable, you’ll be able to focus better. 
 
• DON’T lay down (with laptops) – You want to be in a comfortable chair, but you 
don’t want to be TOO comfortable. If you are lying down while playing, you are going 
to be tempted to SLEEP between hands. That’s a no-no. 
  
• DO have a radio if you want – I have found that background music helps me play 
better poker. I don’t think of it as much of a distraction because I don’t focus on the 
music. It is also a crucial boredom fighter because the music works like a TV to 
provide a light distraction between hands, but you won’t get to out of the game. 
Music = Good; TV= Bad. 
 
• DON’T bring up other programs on your computer – If you have your web browser 
up, a game of solitaire running, and your email inbox open, you will never be able to 
give serious attention to your game. 
 
• DO have poker books (and my newsletters) handy – As we discussed, you can fight 
boredom and improve your skills by having a lot of poker literature around… 
  
 
 
 
- 212 - 
• DO have a notebook – If you want to manually take notes as opposed to using a 
software program, make sure that you have the notebook out at all times. You may 
need to refer to it for important information at any time during the game.  
 
 
 
 
- 213 - 
 
SIT & GO’S 
 
Sit & Go’s are HOT… and I want to cover some specific techniques you can use to win 
them… 
 
I sincerely believe that Sit & Go’s are revolutionizing the way poker is played. Literally, 
you can play dozens of TOURNAMENTS per day… every day… from the comfort of your 
own home. WHENEVER YOU WANT! 
 
Mastering these games and developing a “system” for consistently winning is like 
writing your own paycheck. Seriously. 
 
Patience and hand selection is everything. 
 
The number one reason you’ll lose a Sit & Go is because you played too many starting 
hands. The players in Sit & Go’s are LOOSE… there are many reasons for this, but we 
won’t cover them here. The thing to remember is this: 
 
If you play a lot of hands against loose players, you will catch bad beats. 
 
The answer then is to NOT play a lot of hands… and only play MONSTERS. The playing 
style to adopt is what I call “Tight-Aggressive SQUARED”. 
 
Tight-aggressive squared means to play EXTREMELY tight with your hand selection… 
and EXTREMELY aggressively when you have a good hand. The great thing about Sit & 
Go’s is that you will almost get action with your monster hands. 
 
I’ve created this killer chart as a guide for you to follow. (PRINT THIS OUT.) There will 
be exceptions in each phase, of course, but for the most part this holds true. Follow this 
and you’ll start placing in the money in more Sit & Go’s starting IMMEDIATELY. (This 
is for 10-player Sit & Go’s. It is basically the same for 8-player tables.) 
 
 
 
 
 
- 214 - 
 
# of Players Left 
Your Game Strategy 
10 – 8 Players 
When you have a monster hand (A-A, K-K, Q-Q) go all-
in and play SUPER aggressively. Your goal should be to 
narrow the field to one caller and double up. If you have 
Big Slick, play it based on positioning… but still play it 
aggressively. 
The ONLY other hands you should play are pocket pairs 
and suited-connectors and Ace-X suited… and you 
should LIMP-IN ONLY with these hands. Your goal is 
to have a “hidden hand” that catches trips, a straight, or 
a flush that busts your opponents. 
 
Don’t play any other starting hands. Be disciplined and 
patient… the fish will kill each other off at this level.  
7 – 5 Players 
Maintain your previous game strategy. Only play 
premium hands. As the blinds go up, don’t bother 
playing suited-connectors or low pocket pairs unless 
you have a comfortable chip lead. Every action should 
either be RAISE or FOLD… never call. 
5 – 4 Players 
This is the phase right before payouts begin. Here, 
players at the table get tighter in hopes of finishing in 
the money. When you have good positioning and sense 
weakness, you can use your tight table image to steal 
the blinds (which will be reasonably high at this point).  
 
Lean on short-stacked players when they’re in the 
blinds by doubling their blinds. If you’re the chip 
leader, don’t let other players see a cheap flop. But don’t 
waste chips… be smart and play your POSITIONING.  
3 Players 
Now that you’ve placed in the money, be aggressive. 
Your goal is FIRST place… not second. Be very 
aggressive and steal the blinds from your opponents 
with good positioning. Don’t be afraid of risking all your 
chips. If you play it right, you’ll either place in third or 
in first… rarely in second. 
2 Players 
Hopefully you’re the chip leader at the table. If so, lean 
on your opponent by doubling the blinds EVERY HAND 
 
 
 
- 215 - 
(or by putting him all-in if he’s very short-stacked). If 
you’re the short-stack, push all-in with pocket pairs, 
painted hands, and Ace-X suited. If the blinds are so 
high that you must make a move quickly, do it with 
connectors or any hand with an Ace. 
 
Go for the money. 
 
Your entire mentality in a Sit & Go should be to GO FOR THE MONEY. If you begin 
thinking of Sit & Go’s like a BUSINESS… with profits and losses… it will make a lot of 
sense. 
 
This will help you become more patient. In normal poker, being a 60/40 favorite or a 
70/30 favorite with all your money in the middle is good. This is NOT the case with Sit & 
Go’s… or at least not at the beginning of a Sit & Go. The reason is because you’ll often 
get knocked out and the tournament will be useless. 
 
The key is to be an OVERWHELMING favorite for your all-in hands… and you CAN do 
that by only playing monsters. Tight-aggressive squared is the name of the game. 
 
This is also the reason why you should place THIRD or FIRST… but NOT second. At 
first glance this may seem strange… so let me explain. 
 
When you make it in the money in the top three, you’ve accomplished your main goal. 
Now your goal should be FIRST PLACE. The reason is because it pays considerably 
more than second or third. The DIFFERENCE between second and third is relatively 
small. 
 
That means when there are three players at the table, YOU should be pushing the action. 
Don’t try to just sit back and wait for one of them to go out (unless there’s a complete 
manic at the table). Instead, be aggressive and push your stack all-in with good hands.  
 
Doing this will win you the blinds… which will build your chip stack VERY quickly. If 
you run into a great hand and lose, that’s OK. By consistently following this approach 
you’ll place in first much more often… and win more money in the long run. 
 
Don’t bluff. 
 
When you’re at low-stakes Sit & Go’s online, bluffing isn’t an option until you get down 
to just a few players (five or less in a 10-man game). The reason is because there is such 
 
 
 
- 216 - 
a huge percentage of DUMB online poker players who will call all the way down to the 
river with nothing but an Ace high or bottom pair. 
 
Bluffing is a bad idea because it usually never works. This principle of not bluffing bad 
players is actually true for all types of no limit Holdem poker. 
 
Calculate your profits per hour and aim for higher stakes. 
 
One of the biggest mistakes I see with Sit & Go’s is players who enter the WRONG 
STAKES games. The way to know the RIGHT stakes is to simply figure out what makes 
you the most money per hour. Period. 
 
For instance, let’s say you can play three Sit & Go’s per hour. Let’s say you place in the 
money for ½ of the $5 Sit & Go’s you play and average $16 in winnings for each time 
you place. 
 
Now let’s say you can win 1/3 of the $10 Sit & Go’s you play in… and average $35 in 
winnings for each time you place. Which level should you choose? 
 
With the $5 Sit & Go’s, you’re spending $10 (let’s ignore entry fees) to make $16. So you 
make $6 for every two games… which is $3 for every game. That’s $9 per hour. 
 
For the $10 games you’re spending $30 to bring in $35. So that’s $5 profit for every 
three games… which equals $1.67 per hour. 
 
This is a huge difference! 
 
I’ve given you the LOWEST stakes games as examples here… and I hope you see my 
point. This type of discrepancy WIDENS when you start playing in higher stakes games. 
 
My rule is this… start at the LOWEST level and work your way up. Build a bankroll at 
the $5 games and then move to the $10 ones. Build your bankroll there and move to $20. 
And so on and so on. Follow this approach and you’ll soon be making serious money per 
hour playing online poker. 
 
The other thing to remember is that if you beat a lower stakes level… move up… then get 
your ass kicked and lose your money, don’t despair! BUT DON’T DEPOSIT MORE 
MONEY! It just means you’re not ready yet… and the answer is to go back down to the 
previous level and build your bankroll again. 
 
The WORST thing you can do is get “stuck” at a level and keep depositing all your 
money in hopes of beating it. This is irresponsible gambling. Build a bankroll… risk it… 
 
 
 
- 217 - 
and then if you lose go back and build. Don’t try to justify depositing large chunks of 
money into your online poker account because of the “bonuses”.  
 
Be smart and responsible… and as a result, your poker career will be much more 
profitable and rewarding. I can promise you that. 
 
Use proper etiquette. 
 
My last tip for you here with Sit & Go’s is to not be a Jackass. Seriously. I see so many 
guys who act retarded with the chat features on Sit & Go’s and basically shoot 
themselves in the foot. 
 
The reason being a jerk is NOT smart is because EVERYONE sees it… and people will 
start “gunning” for you just to shut you up. Even if you pick on just one player with your 
trash talk, it annoys everyone.  
 
What happens is that as soon as you enter a big hand, OTHER players will enter the 
hand too… just to get a chance at beating you. The reason it doesn’t work to your 
advantage is because often there will be so many callers that your odds of winning the 
hand decrease dramatically. 
 
Being rude and stupid with the chat features will lead you to fewer winnings and 
contributes to making poker LESS enjoyable. Don’t do it. 
 
 
 
- 218 - 
 
ONLINE TELLS 
 
A “tell” is a signal at the poker table that gives you some extra information about a 
player’s hand. In live poker, it’s often the way a player looks at you… or maybe the way 
he tosses his chips into the middle. 
 
These signals are indeed important. Because you want to learn AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE 
about your opponents. 
 
Online, though, you’re staring at a COMPUTER SCREEN… So it seems it takes “tells” 
out of the equation, right? 
 
Wrong. 
 
There are still “tells”… they’re just different. You can’t say a player CLICKED a certain 
way because he was bluffing. But you can make educated guesses about a player’s hand 
based on other factors… such as: 
 
• Hand History  
• Screen Names 
• Table Chat 
• Betting Patterns  
• Positioning  
• Chip Position  
• Auto-Play Buttons 
 
Some of these are useful in live poker, too. 
 
OK, let’s take a look at each: 
 
Hand History 
 
The hand history of your opponent is the single greatest source of information in your 
poker game. It will tell you more about an opponent than anything else.  
 
 
 
 
- 219 - 
However, a lot of players don’t seem to know that watching a player’s hand selection is 
so important.  
 
OK, let’s say you fold pre-flop. Three players: Gary, Pete, and Jack all enter the pot. It’s 
in the early rounds of a no limit Sit & Go tournament. 
 
The flop comes out: 
 
 
 
 
 
Gary checks, and Pete bets 100 into a pot of 90. This is a strong bet considering the pot 
size… so you’d put him on a King with a good kicker. 
 
Jack calls, Gary folds. 
 
You think Jack may have two high cards or a King with a mediocre kicker. If had a good 
kicker, he would have raised Pete. 
 
The turn hits: 
 
 
 
Now Pete bets 300 into the 290 pot. Another strong bet… making you more certain he’s 
got the King. 
 
Jack thinks for a second… then calls. 
 
The river hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
- 220 - 
 
Pete bets 200 into the 890 pot. 
 
This is a signal that he’s not so sure of his hand any more. Jack calls… showing that he’s 
not totally confident either. 
 
The two players flip over their cards… 
 
Jack was holding K-8 suited. Not a bad hand… looser than at a live table… but 
“respectable” enough. 
 
But what did Pete have? 
 
Turns out he was on 9-6. Which means he was betting middle pair with a weak kicker. 
He also had the inside straight draw… but would have been dominated by the Jack. 
 
Now you KNOW that Pete is a loose player. It’s unusual for a player to play loose just for 
one hand and then tighten up the rest of the day. 
 
So you can assume that Pete is going to play many hands… and will get involved in high-
action pots with poor-to-marginal hands. This “tell” gives you powerful information 
about Pete. The next time you have a good hand with him in the pot, you’ll want to force 
serious action and consistently raise. 
 
(I need to interject here that hand histories and betting patterns aren’t really “tells” in 
the traditional sense of the word. But because they’re so important online and give 
information about your opponents’ hands, it’s easier to talk about them in this section.) 
 
OK, so the other thing that this hand tells you about Pete is the WAY that he plays. He 
was aggressive after the flop and turn, but backed down on the river when he realized 
how many hands could beat his. 
 
You can take serious advantage of this by making moves on him when he shows 
WEAKNESS ON THE RIVER. For example, let’s say you’ve got a pair of ladies (Q-Q) 
and the flop comes out: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 221 - 
You lead out with a strong bet… Pete is your only caller. You’re confident you’re ahead in 
the hand, because he would have raised had he had trips, two pair, or a higher pair. 
 
The turn comes: 
 
 
 
That’s not a card you wanted to see. It gives you two pair, but now you’re afraid Pete has 
trips. 
 
Of course, you can’t be scared away that easily… so you make another strong bet. Pete 
calls again. Now you’re thinking he has something like K-T or A-T, since he didn’t raise. 
 
Finally, the river comes out:  
 
 
 
Normally you’d make another big bet on the river and hope he calls. However, against 
this type of player you may not want to do that. You know Pete has a tendency to weaken 
up on the river without a hand. 
 
So you figure he’s going to fold. If he DOES fold, you want him to feel like he made the 
“right laydown”. So you lead out with a HUGE bet… possibly putting Pete all-in… and 
representing one of the Jacks. 
 
Pete folds his ten, of course. But what’s important is that he tells himself that you got 
“lucky” to hit the Jack. He’s not afraid of you in the future… he’ll go heads-up with you 
again. 
 
This is an example of “shearing” the sheep, but not skinning it. You’d never get away 
with this type of play in a live game. But here, if you make a “bully” bet, Pete will think 
you’re a bully all the time and will be too scared to enter pots with you when he’s weak. 
 
 
 
 
- 222 - 
But by convincing him you have the trip Jacks, Pete just thinks you were playing the 
cards, and that you’re not a “shark” to be feared. 
 
The goal is to INTIMIDATE opponents with your play, but not SCARE them from 
playing every pot you enter. It’s a fine line, but an important one.  
 
Plus, the great thing is, if Pete is so pot-committed that he decides to CAll-in this 
position, you’ll win a giant pot. 
 
Timing 
 
Timing at the online poker table is a “tell” that is hotly debated. Some believe it’s the 
ONLY thing you can really rely on for information about an opponent’s cards. Others say 
it’s all phooey because it depends on the player’s attention span and connection speed. 
 
I believe that timing— while a SHAKY source of information— can still tell you some 
information about your opponents. 
 
Let’s say you get your cards: 
 
 
 
 
The flop hits: 
 
 
 
 
 
You lead out with a large bet. Your opponent thinks for his full time… and then calls. 
 
If he had an Ace, he probably wouldn’t have spent so much time thinking. You figure 
you’re ahead in the hand either way. 
 
The turn hits: 
 
 
 
 
- 223 - 
 
 
This is where I may move all-in in a Sit & Go… or make a huge bet in a ring game. But 
seeing as your opponent was tortured about calling the last bet, he’ll probably fold. We 
want to milk him if he has that Jack. 
 
So you continue the pot-commitment trap by leading out with a medium bet. You don’t 
want to scare him away… you want to get more in the pot that you’re about to win. 
 
This time he calls after about ten seconds… and you’re ready to push big in the next 
round of betting. 
 
The river hits: 
 
 
 
You take a few seconds (so as to not appear too eager)… and then put your opponent all-
in. He KNOWS he’s in major trouble, but with so many chips in the middle he’s feeling 
pot-committed. He calls. 
 
Who knows, he may have hit two pair.  
 
But then he sees your trips… 
 
He curses, leaves the table, slaps his computer desk, and stops playing for the day. 
 
You check your hand history tool to see what he had. Sure enough: J-7. He would have 
definitely folded had you come out too strong on the turn… but by letting him hit the 
seven you got all his money. 
 
And it all ORIGINATED when you picked up a “tell” about the timing. You could SENSE 
that he wasn’t sure whether or not to call the best on the flop. 
 
Good work.  
 
 
 
- 224 - 
 
Now… don’t put too much faith into the timing. Don’t go buying pots and bluffing just 
because you “sensed weakness” because there was a delay by your opponent. 
 
But with a strong hand, you can afford to use the “timing tells” since it’s really just a 
matter of HOW MUCH you win, not WHETHER you win. 
 
OK, the following is a chart I’ve put together as the “meanings” of timed moves. 
BEWARE—this is not “gospel”. Far from it. This is just a GENERAL analysis that’s been 
confirmed by many hours at the poker tables. It can be very useful… just don’t base any 
decisions on it. Especially since many smart players (like you) will DELIBERATELY 
delay your moves, make instant raises out of nowhere, and do anything to confuse the 
other players… 
 
All right, you get the idea. You know that this isn’t a SUREFIRE thing… just an 
additional piece of information that can help you. Right? Lol… 
 
Here’s the chart: 
 
The Move And Timing 
The Meaning Behind It 
Instant Check 
Very Weak 
Long Pause, Then Check 
Weak or Drawing 
Instant Call 
Very Strong 
Long Pause, Then Call 
Strong or if aggressive player, 
mediocre hand 
Instant Raise 
VERY Strong 
Pause, Then Raise 
Strong 
 
Combine these TIMING TELLS with a mental “history” (or put it in your notebook). For 
instance, if the last three times your opponent made a quick check he folded to a bet, 
you can guess he’ll continue that behavior again in the game. 
 
Table Chat 
 
“Table chat” can actually tell you a lot about your opponents…  
 
A player who talks a lot about things completely unrelated to online poker is probably 
new to the game (or at least to the online poker world). You want opponents like these. 
Because you can take advantage of their inexperience. 
 
 
 
 
- 225 - 
Also, look for players who don’t chat at all but then suddenly start chatting in the middle 
of a hand. I’ve seen players say something like this: 
 
>>> Forget it, I have to go get dinner.  
 
Or 
 
>>> Today just wasn’t my day… 
 
And then they’ll make a HUGE BET… 
 
These players want you to call. So disappoint them and fold. They’re trying to make it 
look like they’re “desperate” to stop playing. 
 
Yea, right. 
 
Seems childish, but it happens. When you see it, get out. 
 
On the other side, a player that constantly chats can be quite dangerous when he’s quiet. 
If a manic player is always talking trash and attacking other players… but then all of the 
sudden SHUTS UP… 
 
Fold your cards! 
 
This is like the quiet before the storm… so run for cover. 
 
The last table talk tell is when a cocky manic SAYS he has a monster. It means he 
probably does. This is the player who’s always pushing action, bluffing, etc. This type of 
player gets an ego trip when he tells everyone he’s got a monster but still gets a caller 
(because his opponent thinks it’s a bluff).  
 
Betting Patterns 
 
As you know, players tend to fall-into DISTINCTIVE, IDENTIFIABLE betting patterns 
for each type of hand they play. And often they’ll bet the SAME AMOUNT for each type. 
 
The first key is to NOT be one of these players. Mix up your bets. Do NOT bet the same 
each time… 
 
The good news is, at low-stakes online poker your opponents probably won’t be smart 
enough to pay attention anyway. If you bet 100 chips every time you get Queens, Kings, 
or Aces… they probably won’t notice. 
 
 
 
- 226 - 
 
But YOU WILL notice when your opponents fall-into patterns… right? The “secret” is to 
PAY ATTENTION. Period. 
 
For instance… let’s say you identify an opponent who consistently check raises. The flop 
comes out painted and it’s you two heads-up. He checks to you… you’ve got a draw. 
 
What do you do? 
 
Normally I recommend taking control of the betting on a draw that way you can get a 
free river card. But not here. Because if you bet you’ll get raised… and then you’ll be over 
your head. 
 
So you check and see a free card… 
 
If you MAKE your draw, it’s pay day. Because your opponent will bet after the turn after 
sensing your weakness on the flop. And the rest is history. 
 
With no limit Holdem, the WAY you bet isn’t as easy to identify as the AMOUNTS being 
bet. Really pay attention to VOLUME… not necessarily 50 chips versus 55… but rather 
BIG BETS versus SMALL BETS. 
 
It’s counter-intuitive, but most players bet SMALLER with big hands and BIGGER with 
hands that aren’t so good. It’s almost a NATURAL thing to do, since you want your 
opponents to call. 
 
The really great thing is when you run into an opponent in a ring game who always bets 
the same amount for his big hands. You can literally have a perfect read on him over and 
over and over… and he’ll be amazed that you always seem to know when to fold. 
 
Another important pattern is finding when opponents OVER-BET the pot. Watch when 
two players go into a showdown. Let’s say player A bets 300 on the river into a 1000 
chip pot. His opponent calls. Player A then turns over the nut flush (and there were no 
full-house possibilities on the board). 
 
This shows you that Player A really wanted a call. He had such a good hand he didn’t 
want to scare out the opponent. 
 
If you see this a few more times with him, that’s very useful. Because when he bets 500 
on the river into a 300 chip pot, you can guess he’s buying it. And then you can bust his 
bluff with your kicker-less top pair. 
 
 
 
 
- 227 - 
Chip Position  
 
There’s a lot of differences between the chip leader, middle-stack player, and desperate 
short stack. The major “tells” you can get based on stack size are distinguished between 
the big stack and the short stack. 
 
Chip Tell For Short Stacks 
 
There’s always a sense of DESPERATION with short-stacked players. This person will 
move all-in with mediocre hands… trying to increase his stack to a point where he’s 
competitive again. 
 
Short-stacked players also fall victim to the “drainage” effect… which makes them prone 
to playing bad hands and pissing away the rest of their chips. 
 
If a short stack moves all-in, remember that it may be his last-ditch attempt to get back 
to “normal” stack levels. After all, it’s no fun playing without the HOPE that you can win. 
 
Of course, you still need a good hand. Don’t call a short-stack’s all-in with ten high… just 
because you don’t put him on a big hand. The fact remains—he’ll double up from you! 
 
Challenge the short stack with good cards. You don’t need monsters… just be smart 
about what will win in a showdown. 
 
Chip Tell For Big Stacks 
 
The POWER of the chip leader is undeniable. These are the players who can force 
expensive action and bully the rest of the table. 
 
Chip leaders usually win a lot of pots by simply betting aggressively… because the other 
players don’t want to go heads-up with them. 
 
If you’re going to go heads-up with the chip leader, you’d better have something good… 
because you need to be fully prepared to put every chip into the middle. You can’t bluff 
the chip leader.  
 
Auto-Play Buttons 
 
The “auto-play” buttons are an appealing way to play Texas Holdem… especially limit 
Holdem where the action is more predictable. 
 
 
 
 
- 228 - 
In you’re not familiar with what I’m talking about, auto-play buttons are the options 
offered in the poker room that allow you to decide your actions BEFORE it’s your turn. 
Then when the action comes to you, the computer automatically DOES what you told it. 
 
I don’t recommend using the auto-play features…  
 
Because they can reveal a lot of information about your hand. 
 
When you use the auto-play buttons, you’re basically telling everyone at the table, “Hey, 
this is my move… and I’m so confident in this move that I don’t even need to see what 
everyone else does before I act!” 
 
The WORST features are the auto-raise or auto-call buttons… those are just plain silly. 
Don’t use them. Ever. Period.  
 
Now… when watching your opponents, you want to look for INSTANTANEOUS 
decisions. That means they’re probably using the auto buttons…  
 
The most common and useful piece of information you can get is from people who auto 
“check”. You can pretty much bet they don’t have a hand and have no interest in winning 
it. You can bet them out. 
 
The one auto feature that you can use is the auto FOLD buttons. It does little harm to 
show people you just won’t play crappy hands. The exception is if you have some crazy 
strategy to look like a manic (which can be effective at times). 
 
Now here’s a really cool trick I figured out… 
 
Sometimes I’ll wait 15-20 seconds before making a move when the action is to me. This 
FRUSTRATES the hell out of my opponents…  
 
…and the result is that they get so irritated they use the auto buttons! 
 
It’s beautiful (especially in limit poker). Because as soon as I make my move a large 
portion of the table instantly folds, checks, or bets. It tells me a lot about what these 
players are thinking… and their willingness to get involved in the pot.  
 
OK, so the summary is to not use the auto-play buttons unless you’re just folding bad 
hands. Watch for players who DO use the buttons… and try to get a sense of their hands 
from this behavior. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 229 - 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
All right… So those are my strategies and techniques for no limit Texas Holdem poker. I 
sincerely hope you enjoyed this book. And more importantly, I hope that it helps you 
become a better, more profitable poker player. 
 
If you have any comments or questions, email me at roy@royrounder.com. I try to 
answer emails, but it’s difficult since I prefer to spend my time PLAYING poker. If I 
don’t get back to you, I apologize in advance. I also try to answer emails within my 
NEWSLETTERS, so be sure to read those. (For general support inquiries, contact 
support@royrounder.com and you’ll get an answer within 24 hours.) 
 
I’ve got several new products coming out within the next few months, including a 
product for Sit & Go strategies, a book about online poker, and a DVD course… 
 
These tools will give you a HUGE EDGE over your opponents. And they’ll make your 
“hobby” more profitable than ever. So stay tuned. As a valued customer, you’ll get “first 
dibs” on anything new. OK, now go play some poker! I’ll talk to you soon. 
 
Your Friend, 
 
Roy Rounder 
